




MY DOG AND I.


Reproductions of any of the Half-Tones of dogs published in “My Dog and
I,” printed on finest woodcut paper (9½ × 12½) ESPECIALLY FOR FRAMING,
will be sent to any address on receipt of price, 25c. each.

                            H. W. HUNTINGTON,
                       5 West Thirty-Ninth Street,
                              New York City.




                               MY DOG AND I

          BEING A CONCISE TREATISE OF THE VARIOUS BREEDS OF DOGS
                THEIR ORIGINS AND USES. WRITTEN EXPRESSLY
                              FOR THE NOVICE

                    CONTAINING A COMPREHENSIVE MODE OF
                  TREATMENT BOTH IN HEALTH AND SICKNESS

                            TOGETHER WITH THE
                     NAMES OF SOME PROMINENT BREEDERS

                                    BY
                             H. W. HUNTINGTON
           PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL GREYHOUND CLUB OF AMERICA

               ILLUSTRATED WITH HALF-TONES OF TYPICAL DOGS

                    ORIGINAL MARGINAL ILLUSTRATIONS BY
                  MR. NEVILLE CAIN, CLARENCEVILLE, L.I.

                              [Illustration]

                                 NEW YORK
                      PUBLISHED BY THE CAXTON PRESS
                                   1897

                           Copyright, 1897, by
                            H. W. HUNTINGTON.

                    THE NEW YORK TYPE-SETTING COMPANY.




CONTENTS.


                                         PAGE

    PREFACE                                 7

    BULLDOG
      English                               9
      French                               11

    CHESAPEAKE BAY DOG                     12

    COLLIE
      Rough-coated                         14
      Smooth-coated                        16

    DALMATIAN (Coach-dog)                  17

    GREAT DANE                             19

    HOUND
      Basset                               21
      Beagle                               23
      Bloodhound                           25
      Dachshund                            27
      Deerhound                            29
      Foxhound (American)                  31
      Foxhound (English)                   32
      Greyhound (English)                  34
      Harrier                              36
      Greyhound (Italian)                  37
      Otterhound                           39
      Wolfhound (Irish)                    41
      Wolfhound (Russian)                  43

    MASTIFF                                45

    MEXICAN HAIRLESS                       48

    NEWFOUNDLAND                           49

    POINTER                                51

    POMERANIAN                             53

    POODLE
      Black, curly-coated                  55
      Black, corded                        57
      White-and-red                        57

    PUG
      Fawn                                 58
      Black                                59

    RETRIEVER
      Black, curly-coated                  60
      Black, flat- or wavy-coated          62

    ST. BERNARD
      Rough-coated                         64
      Smooth-coated                        66

    SCHIPPERKE                             67

    SETTER
      English                              69
      Gordon                               71
      Irish                                73

    SHEEP-DOG (Old English or Bobtail)     75

    SPANIEL
      Blenheim                             90
      Clumber                              77
      Cocker                               79
      Field                                81
      Irish Water-                         83
      Japanese                             85
      King Charles                         91
      Prince Charles                       89
      Ruby                                 89
      Sussex                               87

    TERRIER
      Airedale                             93
      Bedlington                           95
      Black-and-tan                        97
      Boston                               99
      Bull                                101
      Clydesdale                          103
      Dandie Dinmont                      105
      Fox (Smooth-coated)                 107
      Fox (Wire-haired)                   109
      Irish                               110
      Maltese                             112
      Paisley                             103
      Scottish                            113
      Skye                                115
      Toy                                 116
      Welsh                               117
      White English                       119
      Yorkshire                           121

    WHIPPET                               123

    TREATMENT OF THE DOG IN HEALTH        124

    TREATMENT OF THE DOG IN SICKNESS      130

    TECHNICAL TERMS                       138

    BREEDERS’ DIRECTORY                   140




PREFACE.


Stonehenge, Shaw, and others have at various times written exhaustive
treatises on the dog, its care in health and sickness; and while there
is no question but that they are invaluable to the owners of large
kennels, I consider that they are too complex for the novice who owns but
one or two dogs. They use very largely technical terms not thoroughly
understood by the layman, while certain treatments prescribed are quite
impracticable except where one has a kennel-man. Besides, I think not
one of the above-named writers has ever told the _novice_ what to avoid
in selecting a puppy or a grown dog, or what good points to insist upon.
Recognizing all these facts, and recalling how I strove twenty years ago
to find some work that would aid me in my search for knowledge of the
dog, I have concluded to write a short treatise concerning its origin,
uses, and all things pertaining to it, that will aid the reader in
learning its good points, and bad ones too, the proper scale of “points”
that go to make up the perfect specimen, the treatment in health and
sickness, and such other data as may be of value to him. Experience as a
successful breeder and owner, and having won many prizes largely through
“condition,” confirms me in the belief that I may perhaps be able to help
a fancier in purchasing the proper kind of dog, or, if he already has
one, to aid him in keeping it in health, to know its value, and how to
properly show it (if he is so inclined), so that its faults may be hidden
to the greatest degree, while its good points may become more pronounced.

Perfection does not exist in either man or beast, so we will strive to
select that specimen which has the fewest and least noticeable faults,
remembering always that in the large breeds there are ten good little
ones where there is one good large one.

If this work shall have aided any lover of the dog in any direction
desired, it shall have done its work. If it shall have failed, the public
will surely be lenient in its criticism of

                                                               THE AUTHOR.




THE BULLDOG (ENGLISH).

[Illustration: Beaver Brook Kennels, Danvers, Mass.

BEAVER BROOK SULTAN (formerly Rustic Sultan).]


ORIGIN.—As bull-baiting existed as far back as 1209, the bulldog _must_
have then existed, but its origin is unknown.

USES.—Formerly for baiting bulls, but of late years, since this “sport”
has ceased to be indulged in, it is simply kept as a watchdog and for
exhibition.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                        Value.
    General appearance      10
    Skull                   15
    Stop                     5
    Eyes                     5
    Ears                     5
    Face                     5
    Chops                    5
    Mouth                    5
    Neck and chest           5
    Shoulders                5
    Body                     5
    Back                     5
    Tail                     5
    Fore legs and feet       5
    Hind legs and feet       5
    Size                     5
    Coat                     5
                           ---
                Total      100

    NOTE.—An asterisk denotes that the “scale of points, etc.,”
    given are those adopted by the Specialty Club of that
    particular breed; the other “scale of points, etc.,” are from
    “Dogs of the British Isles” and Mr. Rawdon B. Lee.

[Illustration]

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—The general appearance of the bulldog is that of
a smooth-coated, thick-set, broad, powerful, and compact dog. Head
massive, large in proportion to its size; face extremely short; muzzle
broad, blunt, and inclined upward. Body short and well knit; limbs
stout and muscular; hind quarters very high and strong, but lightly
made in comparison with its heavy fore parts. The dog should convey the
impression of determination, strength, and activity.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Very large, the larger the better; forehead flat, and skin about
the head very loose, hanging in large wrinkles; frontal bones _very_
prominent, broad, square, and high, causing a deep, wide groove between
the eyes, called the stop, which should be broad and deep and extend up
the middle of the forehead. Eyes set low in skull, as far from the ears
as possible, round, very dark, almost black, and showing no white when
looking forward. Ears set high, small and thin, “rose-ear” preferred.
Face short as possible, with skin deeply wrinkled; muzzle short, broad,
turned upward, and very deep from corner of eye to corner of mouth. Nose
very large, broad, and black, deeply set back, almost between the eyes;
nostrils large, wide, and black, with well-defined straight line between
them. Flews thick, broad, pendent, and very deep, hanging over lower jaw
at sides (not in front). Teeth should show when mouth is closed; jaw
broad, massive, square, and tusks wide apart; lower jaw projects in front
of upper, and turns up, with six small front teeth between tusks in an
even row. Teeth strong and large.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Very deep, thick, and strong, well arched, with much loose skin at
throat.

SHOULDERS.—Deep, broad, slanting, and muscular; chest wide and deep.

BACK.—Short and strong, very broad at shoulders, comparatively narrow at
loins, and forming the “roach” or “wheel” back.

BODY.—Well ribbed, round, deep, with belly well tucked up.

TAIL.—Set on low, jutting out, and then turned downward, free from fringe
or coarse hair, rather short than long, thick at root, but tapering to a
fine point carried downward, and the dog should not be able to raise it
above the back.

FORE LEGS.—Wide apart, very stout, strong, and straight; pasterns short,
straight, and strong; fore feet straight; toes compact and thick;
knuckles prominent and high.

HIND LEGS.—Large, muscular, longer in proportion than fore legs; hocks
slightly bent; lower part of legs short.

COAT.—Fine, short, close, and smooth.

[Illustration]

STIFLES.—Round, turned outward. On account of formation the dog walks
with quick, short step, apparently skimming the ground.

COLORS (in order of merit).—If bright and pure of its sort, 1st,
brindles, reds, white, with their varieties, as whole fawns, fallows,
etc.; 2d, pied and mixed colors.

WEIGHT.—Fifty pounds.




THE BULLDOG (FRENCH).

[Illustration: G. N. Phelps’s, 20 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.

MONSIEUR BOULOT.]


ORIGIN.—Nothing definite can be learned of this breed of dogs. Many
exhibitors claim that it is little else than a diminutive English
bulldog, bred originally in Brussels and later (about 1860) in France,
with the exception that it has prick-ears and generally carries them
erect, as that term indicates. Its weight should not be over 24 pounds,
the lighter the better. In France the breed is fast becoming very popular
among the _haut ton_, and promises to be well received here. As yet
there is neither a scale of points for judging nor a club to foster the
breed, so the reader will be obliged to consult the picture of Mr. G. N.
Phelps’s winning dog, Monsieur Boulot, in order to form a correct idea
as to its outline, etc. Its exceeding intelligence is greatly in favor
of its becoming a popular breed of pet dogs. The extreme difficulty
attending its breeding and rearing precludes the possibility of it ever
becoming common. At present even ordinary specimens are held at long
prices.

[Illustration]




THE CHESAPEAKE BAY DOG.

[Illustration: Robt. Millbank’s, 154 West Forty-eighth Street, New York.

PRIDE.]


[Illustration]

ORIGIN.—Not known positively, but probably a cross between the two
Labrador dogs that swam ashore from a sinking ship in Chesapeake Bay and
the English water-spaniel.

[Illustration]

USES.—Retrieving wild fowl from the water. There are three classes of
these dogs: the otter, tawny, sedge-colored, with very short hair; the
curly-haired and the straight-haired, each red brown; a white spot is not
unusual.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

               Value.
    Head           15
    Neck            5
    Shoulders      10
    Chest          15
    Size            5
    Loins          10
    Coat           15
    Tail            5
    Feet           10
    Legs           10
                  ---
       Total      100

[Illustration]

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 80 pounds; bitches, 65 pounds.

HEIGHT.—About 25 inches in dogs; 23 inches in bitches.

[Illustration]

Measurements are as follows: from fore toe to top of back, 25 inches; tip
of nose to base of head, 10 inches; girth of body, 33 inches; breast,
9 inches; around fore foot, 6 inches; around forearm below shoulder, 7
inches; between eyes, 2¼ inches; length of ears, 5 inches; from occiput
to root of tail, 35 inches; tail, 16 inches long; around muzzle below
eyes, 10 inches.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The Standard says nothing as to the dog’s conformation. The illustration,
therefore, must be the guide.




THE COLLIE (ROUGH-COATED).

[Illustration: J. Pierpont Morgan’s, New York.

RUFFORD ORMONDE.]


ORIGIN.—It is among the oldest of known breeds of dogs, and probably came
from India. Buffon, the great writer, considers it the _parent of all
dogs_.

[Illustration]

USES.—Attending flocks of sheep and herds of cattle.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                         Value.
    Head and expression      15
    Ears                     10
    Neck and shoulders       10
    Legs and feet            15
    Hind quarters            10
    Back and loins           10
    Tail                      5
    Coat with frill          20
    Size                      5
                            ---
                 Total      100

[Illustration]

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—A lithe, active dog, presenting an elegant, pleasing
outline, and exhibiting strength, speed, and intelligence.

HEAD.—Moderately long, covered with short, soft hair; skull flat,
moderately wide between the ears and tapering to the eyes; very little
stop; skin on head very tightly drawn; muzzle of fair length, tapering
to the nose, which should always be black; mouth a bit overshot. Eyes of
fair size, not prominent, placed rather wide apart, almond-shaped, and
set obliquely; they may be any shade of brown, the darker the better.
Ears small, covered with short, soft hair, and carried semi-erect when at
attention, at other times thrown back.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Long, arched, and muscular; chest deep and narrow in front, but
wide behind the shoulders.

BACK.—Short and level; shoulders oblique; loins rather long, slightly
arched, and powerful.

[Illustration]

LEGS.—Fore legs straight and muscular, with a fair amount of flat bone;
hind legs sinewy; hind quarters drooping slightly, very long from hips
to hocks; stifles well bent; hip bones rather wide and ragged, and hocks
well bent; pasterns long, springy, and lighter in bone than rest of leg;
feet with soles well padded, and the toes arched and compact.

TAIL.—Moderately long, carried low when quiet, gaily when excited, and
almost straight when running.

COAT.—An important point. It should be abundant except on head and legs;
the outer coat straight, hard, and rather stiff, the inner coat soft and
furry and very dense, so as to make it difficult to find the skin; the
frill very abundant; hair on tail very profuse, and on hips long and
bushy; fore legs slightly feathered; hind legs below hocks smooth.

COLOR.—Immaterial.

[Illustration]

HEIGHT.—Dogs, 21 to 24 inches; bitches, 2 inches less.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 45 to 60 pounds; bitches, 40 to 50 pounds.

DEFECTS.—Domed skull; high-peaked, occipital bone; heavy, pendulous ears;
full, soft eyes; heavy, feathered legs; short tail.

[Illustration]




THE COLLIE (SMOOTH-COATED).

[Illustration: J. Carver’s, Newburg, N. Y.

BEN.]


[Illustration]

[Illustration]

ORIGIN, USES, SCALE OF POINTS, etc., same as the rough collie, except in
matter of coat, which should be hard, dense, and quite smooth.




THE DALMATIAN (COACH-DOG).

[Illustration: J. Dickman Brown’s.

PERRY.]


ORIGIN.—Probably indigenous to Dalmatia, a province of Austria, but
records of the sixteenth century describe such a dog as belonging to
Spain. The latest authentic trace is to Denmark, where it was used for
drawing carts. Resembles the pointer in form.

USES.—Simply to follow the coach or equestrian.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                  Value.
    Head and eyes                     10
    Ears                               5
    Neck and shoulders                10
    Body, back, chest, and loins      10
    Legs and feet                     15
    Coat                               5
    Color and markings                30
    Tail                               5
    Symmetry                          10
                                     ---
                          Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Strong, muscular, active; free from coarseness;
capable of speed and great endurance.

HEAD.—Fair length; skull flat, broad between ears; moderate stop, and
_not_ in straight line from occiput to nose; no wrinkles; muzzle long
and powerful; lips clean cut, fitting jaws closely. Eyes moderately
wide apart, medium size, round, bright. In black-spotted dogs eyes are
dark; in livers, light or light brown (yellow). Rims around eyes black
in black-spotted varieties, and brown in the liver-spotted ones, _never_
flesh-colored. Ears set on high, rather wide at base, tapering, carried
close, thin, fine, _always_ spotted. Nose black in blacks, brown in
livers.

[Illustration]

NECK AND SHOULDERS.—Neck fairly long, arched, light, tapering, _not_
throaty; shoulders sloping and muscular.

BODY, BACK, CHEST, AND LOINS.—Chest very deep, not too wide; ribs well
sprung, _never_ rounded; powerful back; loins strong and arched.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs perfectly straight, strong in bone; elbows
close to body; cat-footed, tough pads; hocks well let down. Nails in
black-spotted ones are black and white; in liver-spotted, brown and white.

[Illustration]

TAIL.—Not too long, tapering well to end, carried with slight curl
upward, _never_ curled; the more profusely spotted, the better.

COAT.—Short, dense, hard, fine, sleek, and glossy, never woolly nor silky.

COLOR AND MARKINGS.—Ground color is _pure_ unmixed white. The spots of
the black-spotted variety are black, in liver-spotted variety are brown;
should not intermingle, but be distinct, and about size of ten-cent
silver piece on body; on head, face, ears, legs, and tail, much smaller.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 55 pounds; bitches, 50 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE GREAT DANE.

[Illustration: G. A. Burt’s, Parkersburg, W. Va.

MAJOR MCKINLEY II.]


ORIGIN.—Probably indigenous to Germany, where it was formerly known under
the various names of Ulmer, German mastiff, and boarhound.

[Illustration]

USES.—Companion and guard for foresters and gamekeepers, also for
attacking the wild boar and other beasts.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                     Value.
    General appearance    3
    Condition             3
    Activity              5
    Head                 15
    Neck                  5
    Chest                 8
    Back                  8
    Belly                 4
    Tail                  4
    Fore quarters        10
    Hind quarters        10
    Feet                  8
    Coat                  4
    Size (height)        13
                        ---
             Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Large and muscular, strongly but elegantly built;
movements easy and graceful; not so heavy as the mastiff, nor too much of
the greyhound type.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Long, very little indentation between eyes; skull not too broad;
muzzle broad, strong, and blunt; cheek muscles well developed; nose
large, bridge arched; lips blunt, not hanging too much over the sides;
lower jaw slightly projecting. Eyes small, round, deeply set, sharp
expression. Ears small, greyhound-like, usually cropped.

NECK.—Rather long, strong and muscular, well arched, no dewlap.

CHEST.—Not too broad, very deep in brisket.

BACK.—Not too long; loins arched.

STERN.—Reaching to hocks, strong at root, ending fine with a slight
curve; should _never_ curve over the back.

BELLY.—Well drawn up.

FORE QUARTERS.—Shoulders sloping; elbows well under, straight; legs
heavy-boned, strong, and quite straight.

HIND QUARTERS.—Thighs muscular; hocks well let down, as in the greyhound.

FEET.—Large and round; toes well arched and close; nails very strong and
curved.

HAIR.—Very short, hard, and close.

[Illustration]

HEIGHT (minimum).—Dogs, 30 inches; bitches, 28 inches.

WEIGHT (minimum).—Dogs, 120 pounds; bitches, 100 pounds. Nothing under
these should compete.

COLOR.—Various shades of gray, red, black, pure white, or white with
patches of above colors; also brindles and mottled colors.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (BASSET).

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)]


ORIGIN.—Probably of French origin, yet closely allied to the dachshund,
though larger and heavier in every particular.

[Illustration]

USES.—Having a very keen nose, is used for the general purposes of the
smaller hounds, viz., for rabbits.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                          Value.
    Head, skull, eyes, muzzle, and flews      15
    Ears                                      15
    Neck, dewlap, chest, and shoulders        10
    Fore legs and feet                        15
    Back, loins, and hind quarters            10
    Stern                                      5
    Coat and skin                             10
    Color and markings                        15
    Character and symmetry                     5
                                             ---
                                  Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Closely resembling the bloodhound’s; long, narrow, heavy flews;
occiput prominent; forehead wrinkled to the eyes, which should be kind
and show the haw. Teeth small, and the protruding of the upper jaw is
_not_ a fault. Ears so long that in hunting the dog treads on them, set
low, hang loose in folds, ends curl inward, thin and velvety.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Powerful, with heavy dewlaps; elbows _must not_ turn out; chest
deep and full; body long and low.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs short (about 4 inches), close-fitting to chest;
massive paw, each toe standing out distinctly.

STIFLES.—Well bent; quarters muscular, giving the dog a barrel-like shape
and a peculiar waddling gait.

STERN.—Coarse underneath, and carried hound fashion, i.e., carried gaily.

COAT.—Short, smooth, fine, and glossy; skin loose and elastic.

COLOR.—Black, white and tan, with black patches on back; also _sometimes_
hare-pied.

WEIGHT.—Thirty to forty-five pounds.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (BEAGLE).

[Illustration: H. L. Kreuder’s, Nanuet, N. Y.

FRANK FOREST.]


ORIGIN.—This breed seems to be little else than a diminutive foxhound;
has long been in existence; probably one of the oldest of British dogs.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting rabbits, and generally run in packs of five to ten couples;
they are merry little fellows, sturdy and gamy, with a most musical
tongue and a very keen nose.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                               Value.
    Skull                           5
    Ears                           15
    Eyes                           10
    Muzzle, jaw, and lips           5
    Neck                            5
    Shoulders and chest            10
    Back and loins                 15
    Ribs                            5
    Fore legs and feet             10
    Hips, thighs, and hind legs    10
    Tail                            5
    Coat                            5
                                  ---
                       Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Skull moderately domed. Ears set on low, long and fine in leather,
rather broad and rounded at tips, absence of all erectile power. Eyes
full, prominent, rather wide apart, soft and lustrous. Muzzle medium
length, squarely cut; stop well defined; jaws level; lips either free
from or with moderate flews; nostrils large.

NECK AND THROAT.—Neck free in action, strong, yet not loaded; throat
clean, free from folds of skin.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders somewhat sloping, muscular, but not
loaded; chest moderately broad and full.

BACK, LOINS, AND RIBS.—Back short and strong; loins broad and slightly
arched; ribs well sprung.

[Illustration]

FORE LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs straight, plenty of bone; feet close, firm,
either round or hare-like.

HIPS, THIGHS, AND HIND LEGS.—Hips muscular; stifles strong and well let
down; hocks firm.

TAIL.—Carried gaily, well up, medium curve, and clothed with a decided
brush.

HEIGHT.—Fifteen inches.

COLOR.—All hound colors admissible. (See Foxhound.)

DEFECTS.—Flat skull; short ears, set on too high, pointed at tips; eyes
yellow or light color; muzzle snipy; thick, short neck; elbows out; knees
knuckled over; long tail with “tea-pot” curve.

DISQUALIFICATIONS.—Eyes close together and terrier-like; thin rat-tail,
with absence of brush; short, nappy coat.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (BLOODHOUND).

[Illustration: J. L. Winchell’s, Fair Haven, Vt.

CHAMPION VICTOR.]


ORIGIN.—In Barbour’s “Bruce” (1489) we find the earliest mention of the
bloodhound, where it is called the “sleuthhund.” However, little can be
learned definitely of its origin.

USES.—Having scenting powers to a marvelous degree, it is used in
trailing wounded deer, slaves, sheep-stealers, escaped convicts, etc.

[Illustration]

DISPOSITION.—Contrary to general impressions, the modern bloodhound is of
a most equable disposition, kind and gentle, and quite apt to be timid,
excepting when on the trail; then it is extremely dangerous.

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                         Value.
    Head                     15
    Ears and eyes            10
    Flews                     5
    Neck                      5
    Shoulders and chest      10
    Back and ribs            10
    Legs and feet            20
    Color and coat           10
    Stern                     5
    Symmetry                 10
                            ---
                 Total      100

HEAD.—This is the most distinguishable feature of the dog; it is domed,
blunt at occiput; jaws very long and wide at nostrils, hollow and very
lean at cheek; brows very prominent, and the general expression is grand
and majestic; skin covering cheeks and forehead wrinkled to a wonderful
degree.

[Illustration]

EYES AND EARS.—Eyes hazel, rather small, deeply sunk, showing haw, which
is deep red. This redness, some claim, is indicative of cross with
mastiff, Gordon setter, or St. Bernard. Ears long, and will overlap when
drawn over front of nose, hang close to cheek, _never_ inclined to be
pricked; leather thin, covered with soft hair.

FLEWS.—Very long and pendent, falling below mouth.

NECK.—Long, so as to enable the dog to easily drop his nose to the
ground; considerable dewlap.

CHEST AND SHOULDERS.—Chest wider than deep; shoulders sloping and
muscular.

BACK AND BACK RIBS.—Wide and deep, the hips being wide or almost ragged.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs _must_ be straight and muscular; feet as cat-like as
possible.

COAT.—Short and hard on body, silky on ears and top of head.

COLOR.—Black and tan or tan only; the black extends to the back, sides,
top of neck, and top of head; the tan should be of deep, rich red; there
should be little or no white.

STERN.—Carried gaily in gentle curve, but not raised above back; lower
side is fringed with hair.

DEFECT.—Absence of black.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (DACHSHUND).

[Illustration: J. H. Snow’s, Philadelphia, Pa.

FRITZ.]


ORIGIN.—The origin of this dog is lost in antiquity. A dog resembling it
very closely is to be found on the monument of Thothmes III., 2000 B.C.
The modern dog is essentially German.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting rabbits and hares, tracking wounded animals and badgers.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                          Value.
    Head and skull            12
    Jaw                        5
    Legs and feet             20
    Loins                      8
    Body                       8½
    Symmetry and quality      11
    Ears                       6½
    Chest                      7
    Skin and coat             13
    Stern                      5
    Color                      4
                             ---
                  Total      100

HEAD AND SKULL.—Long, level, narrow; peak well developed; no stop. Eyes
intelligent and rather small; follow body in color. Ears long, broad,
soft, set on low and well back, carried close to head. Jaws strong,
level, square to the muzzle; canines recurvant.

CHEST.—Deep, narrow; breast-bone prominent.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs very short, strong in bone, well crooked, not
standing over; elbows well muscled, neither in nor out; feet large,
round, strong, with thick pads and strong nails. Hind legs smaller in
bone and higher; feet smaller. The dog must stand equally on all parts of
the foot.

SKIN AND COAT.—Skin thick, loose, supple, and in great quantity; coat
dense, short, and strong.

[Illustration]

LOINS.—Well arched, long, and muscular.

STERN.—Long and strong, flat at root, tapering to tip; hair on under side
coarse; carried low except when excited.

BODY.—Length from back of head to root of tail two and a half times
height at shoulder; fore ribs well sprung; back ribs very short.

COLOR.—Any color; nose to follow body color; _much_ white objectionable.

SYMMETRY AND QUALITY.—The dachshund should be long, low, and graceful,
not cloddy.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 21 pounds; bitches, 18 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (DEERHOUND).

[Illustration: Albion L. Page’s, 69 Wall Street, New York.

LOCHIEL.]


ORIGIN.—Undoubtedly descended from the Irish wolfhound, though some claim
it to be either a cross of foxhound and greyhound, or greyhound and
bloodhound. It is first mentioned in 1528 as a distinct breed.

USES.—Hunting deer.

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                    Value.
    Head and skull      15
    Eyes and ears       10
    Neck and chest      10
    Body                10
    Thighs and hocks    12
    Legs and feet       10
    Coat                 8
    Stern                5
    Color                5
    Symmetry            15
                       ---
            Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Skull resembles that of a coarse, large greyhound, long and wide
between ears; stop very slight. Jaws long; teeth level and strong;
nostrils open, but not very wide; cheeks muscular; bone under eye neither
prominent nor hollow. Ears small, thin, carried a trifle higher than
those of the greyhound, but should turn over at tips; pricked ears very
objectionable; they should be thinly fringed with hair at edges only.
Eyes full, and dark hazel, sometimes blue.

NECK.—Long enough to allow the dog to stoop to the scent at a fast pace.

[Illustration]

CHEST AND SHOULDERS.—Chest deep rather than wide, resembling that of
greyhound; girth of a full-size dog deerhound should be at least 2 inches
greater than its height; shoulders long, oblique, and muscular.

BACK AND BACK RIBS.—Back should be powerful; a good loin should measure
25 or 26 inches; back ribs are often rather shallow, but they should be
well sprung; loins arched, drooping to root of tail.

ELBOWS AND STIFLES.—Elbows well let down to give length to true arm, and
quite straight; stifles wide apart, well bent.

SYMMETRY is essential to its position as a companionable dog.

QUALITY is also to be regarded as of great importance.

LEGS AND QUARTERS.—Great bone and muscle are essential; the bones must
be well put together at knees and hocks, which should be long and well
developed; quarters deep, but seldom wide, with considerable slope to
tail.

FEET.—Well arched and cat-like.

[Illustration]

COLOR AND COAT.—The colors are dark blue, fawn, grizzle, and brindle,
the latter with more or less tint of blue; the fawn should have tips of
ears dark; the grizzle generally has a decided tint of blue; white on
breast or toes should not disqualify a dog. Coat is coarser on back than
elsewhere, and many claim it should be intermediate between silk and
wool, and not the coarse hair often met with. The whole body is clothed
with a rough coat, sometimes amounting to shagginess; that of muzzle is
longer in proportion than elsewhere, but the mustache should not be wiry,
and should stand out in irregular tufts; there should be no approach to
feather on legs, but their inside should be hairy.

TAIL.—Long and gently curved, without any twist, thinly clothed with hair
only.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (AMERICAN FOXHOUND).

[Illustration: F. J. Hagan’s, Louisville, Ky.

BIG STRIVE.]


[Illustration]

[Illustration]

ORIGIN.—A breed of dogs descended from the English species, but bred
on lighter and finer lines. For uses and scale of points, see English
Foxhound.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (ENGLISH FOXHOUND).

[Illustration: McGregor & Bragdon’s, Portsmouth, N. H.

SONGSTER.]


ORIGIN.—A breed probably indigenous to Great Britain, and quite ancient
too. Its absolute origin is unknown.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting foxes and deer (giving tongue when in full chase); also in
America for hounding deer, moose, and other large game.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                       Value.
    Head                   15
    Neck                    5
    Shoulders              10
    Chest and back ribs    10
    Back and loins         10
    Hind quarters          10
    Elbows                  5
    Legs and feet          20
    Color and coat          5
    Stern                   5
    Symmetry                5
                          ---
               Total      100

HEAD.—Full size, but not heavy; brow pronounced, but not high; of good
length, so girth will be 16 inches. Nose long and wide. Ears low set on
and lying close to cheeks.

NECK.—Long and clean, without throatiness.

[Illustration]

SHOULDERS.—Long, well muscled, sloping, and the true arm long and
muscular.

CHEST AND BACK RIBS.—Girth of chest over 30 inches in 24-inch-tall hound;
back ribs very deep.

BACK AND LOINS.—Very muscular; couplings wide even to raggedness, with
slight arch of loins.

[Illustration]

HIND QUARTERS.—Very strong, as great endurance is required; elbows set
straight, neither in nor out.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs as straight as gun-barrels and as strong; large size
of bone at ankle all-important; feet round, cat-like, and strong.

[Illustration]

COLOR AND COAT.—Color black tan and white, black and white, and various
pies of white and the color of the hare and badger; coat dense, short,
hard, and glossy.

STERN.—Generally arched, carried gaily over back, fringed with hair, and
tapering to a point.

SYMMETRY considerable, and quality should be evident.




THE HOUND (ENGLISH GREYHOUND).

[Illustration: Woodhaven Kennels, Woodhaven, L. I.

CHAMPION SPINAWAY.]


[Illustration]

ORIGIN.—Beyond question the oldest breed of dogs known, as on the
pyramids of Egypt, obelisks, and ancient carved columns it is found in
bold relief, with the same outlines as shown in the above illustration.
In its native state it is quite devoid of courage, so the bitches are
bred to bulldogs, and that product, showing most greyhound form and
bulldog character, is then bred to a greyhound dog, continuing this
same last breeding until in the fifth generation we produce the dog of
the present day, which has indomitable courage, wonderful speed and
endurance, and is possessed of a desire to kill. The name “greyhound” is
a corruption of “gazehound,” signifying that the dog hunts its quarry by
sight and not by scent. In England and Italy none but the nobility were
formerly allowed to own a greyhound, and the killing of one was then
considered a felony.

[Illustration]

USES.—Coursing hares and rabbits, and in addition, in our Western
States, for killing foxes, coyotes, and wolves, though it is rarely able
single-handed to kill the latter, on account of their size and ferocity.

[Illustration]

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                             Value.
    Head and eyes                10
    Neck                         10
    Chest and fore quarters      20
    Loins and back ribs          15
    Hind quarters                20
    Feet                         15
    Coat                          5
    Tail                          5
                                ---
                     Total      100

HEAD.—Long and narrow, fairly large between the ears, well filled out
before the eyes, little or no stop, jaws lean, and eyes bright and
tolerably full. Ears small and folding down when at rest, but raised when
animated. Teeth _must_ be strong, and mouth _level_.

NECK.—A trifle arched, and sufficiently long to enable the dog to easily
pick up a hare when in full stride.

SHOULDERS.—Placed as obliquely as possible.

CHEST.—Fairly deep, and sufficiently wide to give free action to the
heart and lungs.

FORE LEGS.—_Straight_, of good bone, and length from elbow to knee twice
that from knee to ground.

FEET.—The cat-foot is considered best.

LOINS.—Strong, but not too broad; back powerful and somewhat arched.

HIND QUARTERS.—Very muscular; stifles strong and well bent; hocks well
let down.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

TAIL.—Rat-like, fine, long, and somewhat curved, and with little hair on
it.

COLOR.—Greyhounds are of any color, parti or solid.

DISPOSITION.—Kind and amiable, rarely otherwise.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 60 pounds; bitches, 50 pounds.

OBJECTIONABLE FEATURES.—Yellow or white eyes; prick-ears; dish-face;
long, separated toes; lightness of bone; weak back; straight stifles;
undershot or overshot.




THE HOUND (HARRIER).

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)]


[Illustration]

ORIGIN.—Is little else than a small-sized English foxhound. By some
considered to be cross of “Southern hound” and beagle.

USES.—Hunting the hare, sometimes foxes and deer.

[Illustration]

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                         Value.
    Head                     10
    Neck                      5
    Shoulders                10
    Chest and back ribs      10
    Back and loins           10
    Hind quarters            15
    Elbows                    5
    Legs and feet            20
    Color and coat            5
    Stern                     5
    Symmetry                  5
                            ---
                 Total      100

[Illustration]

The points are same as those of the English foxhound, except that the
head is wider and heavier, nose longer and broader, ears set farther
backward, not rounded.

HEIGHT.—Sixteen to twenty inches.




THE HOUND (ITALIAN GREYHOUND).

[Illustration: Frank H. Hoyt, Sharon, Pa.

TRIXIE.]


ORIGIN.—Little is known of the origin of this breed beyond the fact that
Italy and the south of France are supposed to be where it originated.

[Illustration]

USES.—A purely pet dog, exceedingly delicate and fragile.

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                   Value.
    Head                               15
    Neck, ears, and eyes               15
    Legs, feet, and fore quarters      10
    Hind quarters                      10
    Tail and coat                      10
    Color                              10
    Symmetry                           20
    Size                               10
                                      ---
                           Total      100

HEAD.—If possible should be like the English greyhound’s, but such
formation is now rarely met with. In all recent exhibits the skull is
more or less round, and face, though still pointed, is too short, with
tendency to turn up.

NECK.—Long and elegant, resembling closely its larger congener.

EARS AND EYES.—Ears an exact counterpart of the English greyhound’s,
though always somewhat enlarged in comparison with body. Eyes much larger
proportionately, soft and languishing, but should never weep; color of
iris is usually a dark brown.

LEGS, FEET, AND FORE QUARTERS.—Same as the greyhound’s.

[Illustration]

HIND QUARTERS.—As with the last two paragraphs, the only difference lies
in comparative value, the English dog’s points being estimated from
the workmanlike view, while the Italian is regarded from an artistic
standpoint.

TAIL.—Somewhat shorter than the English dog’s, but it _must_ be gently
curved in same tobacco-pipe way, fine in bone, except at root, as well as
free from hair.

COAT.—Short, soft, and silky.

COLOR.—Largely to be taken into consideration, and is consequently
estimated at a high figure. Fawns are now far in the ascendant, and to no
other color should the _full_ value be accorded. A small star on breast
or white toe takes off a point or two, according to extent of white, but
in _all_ cases toe-nails should be dark.

SYMMETRY.—Must be carefully estimated, as a want of elegance in detail or
of combination in due proportion alike lowers the value of these points
separately to a very low ebb. It is a high-stepping little aristocrat.

SIZE.—Bitch for modern successful exhibition should be little over 5
pounds, _nor should the dog exceed 7 or 7½ pounds_.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (OTTERHOUND).

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)]


ORIGIN.—Nothing positive is known about it, but probably a cross of
Welsh harrier, “Southern hound,” and a terrier, though some say it is of
bloodhound extraction. The breed is very old.

USES.—For hunting the otter and other water-animals.

[Illustration]

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                          Value.
    Skull                     10
    Jaws                      10
    Eyes                       5
    Ears                      10
    Chest and shoulders       15
    Body and loins            15
    Legs and feet             10
    Coat                      10
    Stern                      5
    Symmetry and strength     10
                             ---
                  Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Always excepting coat, it much resembles the
bloodhound; it should be perfect in symmetry, strongly built, hard and
enduring, with unfailing powers of scent and a natural antipathy to the
game it is bred to pursue.

HEAD.—Large, broader in proportion than the bloodhound’s; forehead high;
muzzle a fair length, and nostrils wide. Ears long, thin, and pendulous,
fringed with hair.

NECK.—Not naturally long, and looks shorter than it really is from the
abundance of hair on it.

[Illustration]

SHOULDERS.—Slope well.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs straight, and feet a good size; compact.

BACK.—Strong and wide; ribs, and particularly the back ribs, well let
down.

THIGHS.—Big and firm, and hocks well let down.

STERN.—Well and thickly covered with hair, and carried well up, but not
curled.

COLORS are generally grizzle or sandy, with black and tan more or less
clearly defined.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (IRISH WOLFHOUND).

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)]


ORIGIN.—Lost in antiquity; considered by some to be the parent of the
deerhound. Good specimens are rarely to be met with these days.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting wolves, and frequently deer.

Description from Mr. Rawdon B. Lee’s “Modern Dogs” (Sporting).

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Not so heavy or massive as the Great Dane, but
more so than the deerhound, which in general type it should otherwise
resemble. Of great size and commanding appearance; very muscular;
strongly, though gracefully, built; movements easy and active; head and
neck carried high; tail carried with upward sweep, with a slight curve
toward the extremity.

HEAD.—Long; frontal bones of forehead very slightly raised, and very
little indentation between eyes; skull not too broad; muzzle long and
moderately pointed. Ears small and greyhound-like in carriage.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Rather long, very strong and muscular, well arched, without dewlap
or loose skin about throat.

CHEST.—Very deep; breast wide.

BACK.—Rather long than short; loins arched.

TAIL.—Long, slightly curved, moderate thickness, well covered with hair.

BELLY.—Well drawn up.

FORE QUARTERS.—Shoulders muscular, giving breadth of chest, set sloping;
elbows well under, neither turned inward nor outward; forearm muscular;
the whole leg strong and quite straight.

HIND QUARTERS.—Muscular thighs, and second thigh long and strong, as in
greyhound; hocks well let down, turned neither in nor out.

FEET.—Moderately large and round, neither turned inward nor outward; toes
well arched and closed; nails very strong, and curved.

HAIR.—Rough and hard on body, legs, and head; especially wiry and long
over eyes and under jaw.

[Illustration]

COLOR AND MARKINGS.—The colors are gray, brindle, red, black, pure white,
fawn, or any color that appears in the deerhound.

HEIGHT AND WEIGHT.—Minimum height and weight of dogs is 31 inches and 120
pounds; of bitches, 28 inches and 90 pounds. Anything below this should
be debarred from competition. Great size is the desideratum to be aimed
at.

DEFECTS.—Too light or heavy a head; too highly arched frontal bone; large
ears, and hanging flat to face; short neck; full dewlap; too narrow or
too broad a chest; sunken, or hollow, or quite straight back; bent fore
legs, overbent fetlocks, twisted feet, spreading toes; too curly a tail;
weak hind quarters and a general want of muscle; too short in body.

[Illustration]




THE HOUND (RUSSIAN WOLFHOUND).

[Illustration: George M. Keasbey’s, Newark, N. J.

OPTIMIST.]


[Illustration]

ORIGIN.—The Russians do not seem to have an exact or even a clear idea as
to the origin of this breed. It in all probability came from Persia, as
it is more like the dog of that nation than it is like the deerhound. It
is of the greyhound family, however.

USES.—Attacking wolves and foxes, though it can rarely single-handed kill
the former.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                      Value.
    Head and muzzle       15
    Eyes and ears         10
    Neck and chest        10
    Back and loins        15
    Ribs                   5
    Thighs and hocks      10
    Legs and feet         10
    Stern                  5
    Coat                   5
    General symmetry      15
                         ---
              Total      100

HEAD.—Generally very long, and lean throughout; flat, narrow skull; stop
hardly perceptible; long snout. Nose black, and frequently Roman. Eyes
dark, expressive, oblong. Ears small; thin leather; set on high; tips
almost touching when thrown back.

NECK.—Not too short, nor rising straight.

SHOULDERS.—Clean and sloping.

CHEST.—Somewhat narrow, but not hollow.

[Illustration]

BACK.—Rather bony, and free from any hollow; well arched in male, but
level and broad in female; loins broad and drooping; ribs deep, not so
well sprung as in the greyhound, reaching to elbow.

FORE LEGS.—Lean and straight.

HIND LEGS.—Somewhat under body when standing still; not straight; stifles
only slightly bent; legs not too far apart; pasterns short.

FEET.—Long toes, closely joined; nails short and strong; feet covered
with fur like a hare.

COAT.—Long, soft, silky.

TAIL.—Long and sickle-shaped.

COLOR.—Any color.

HEIGHT AND WEIGHT.—Height for a dog, from 28 to 31 inches at shoulder;
bitch, about 2 inches less. The male should be shorter in body than the
female. Weight: dog, 75 to 100 pounds; bitch, 60 to 75 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE MASTIFF.

[Illustration: CHAMPION BEAUFORT’S BLACK PRINCE.]


ORIGIN.—Its origin is purely conjectural. It certainly is a dog of the
British Isles, as at the time of Cæsar it was in existence there.

USES.—A grand, awe-inspiring dog; an excellent guardian, courageous and
most companionable.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                                  Value.
    Shape of skull                                    10
    Girth of skull                                    10
    Ears—carriage and size                             5
    Muzzle—bluntness, breadth, depth, lips, color
      (each 3 points)                                 15
    Neck                                               4
    Breadth of breast                                  4
    Loins and back                                     4
    Girth of chest                                     4
    Shoulders                                          4
    Length                                             4
    Thighs                                             3
    Stern                                              3
    Legs                                               3
    Feet                                               2
    Size, height, and general appearance of bulk      15
    Coat                                               5
    Fawns, dark ears and muzzle, or brindle
      with dark ears and muzzle                        5
                                                     ---
                                          Total      100

GENERAL CHARACTER.—Large, massive, powerful, symmetrical, and well knit;
a combination of grandeur and good nature, courage and docility.

HEAD.—Square when viewed from any point; breadth greatly to be desired,
and should be in ratio to length of the whole head and face as 2 to 3.

BODY.—Massive, broad, deep, long, powerfully built; legs wide apart,
squarely set; muscles sharply defined; size a great desideratum if
combined with quality; height of less importance than substance.

SKULL.—Broad between ears; forehead flat, wrinkled; muscles of temples
and cheeks well developed; arch across skull a rounded, flattened curve,
and a depression up center of forehead.

[Illustration]

FACE OR MUZZLE.—Short, broad under eyes, keeping nearly parallel in width
to end of nose; blunt, cut off square, thus forming a right angle with
upper line of face, of great depth from point of nose to under jaw; under
jaw broad to end. Teeth powerful, wide apart; incisors level, or the
lower projecting beyond the upper, but never sufficiently so as to become
visible when mouth is closed. Length of muzzle to whole head and face as
1 to 3; circumference of muzzle (between eyes and nose) to that of head
(before the ears) as 3 to 5. Ears small, thin, wide apart, set on high,
flat, and close to cheeks when in repose. Eyes small, wide apart, divided
by at least the space of two eyes; stop well marked, but not too abrupt;
color hazel brown, the darker the better, showing no haw. Nose broad,
with widely spreading nostrils; flat (not pointed nor turned up). Lips
slightly pendulous.

NECK.—Slightly arched, moderately long, very muscular.

CHEST.—Wide, deep, well let down; ribs arched and well rounded; false
ribs deep and well set back to hips.

SHOULDER AND ARM.—Slightly sloping, heavy and muscular.

FORE LEGS AND FEET.—Straight, strong, set wide apart; bones very large;
elbows square; pasterns upright. Feet large and round; toes well arched
up; nails black.

BACK, LOINS, AND FLANKS.—Wide and muscular; flat and very wide in a
bitch, slightly arched in a dog.

HIND QUARTERS AND THIGHS.—Broad, wide, muscular; well-developed second
thighs; stifles straight; hocks bent, wide apart, and squarely set when
standing or walking; feet round and _without_ dew-claws.

TAIL.—Put on high up, reaching to hocks, or a little below; wide at
root, tapering; hanging straight in repose, but forming a curve with end
pointing upward, but not over the back, when the dog is excited.

COAT.—Short and close-lying, not too fine over shoulders, neck, and back.

COLOR.—Apricot or silver fawn, or dark fawn-brindle; muzzle, ears, and
nose should be black, with black round the orbits and extending upward
between them. Fawns and brindles without dark points, reds without black
muzzle, and pies, award no points for color.

WEIGHT.—Dogs 27 inches should weigh 120 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE MEXICAN HAIRLESS.

[Illustration: Mrs. H. T. Foote’s, New Rochelle, N. Y.

ME TOO.]


ORIGIN.—One of the oldest of known breeds, being found nearly all over
the world, but best known as coming from Mexico, where its origin is
unknown.

[Illustration]

USES.—A pet dog.

DESCRIPTION.—A smart-looking sort of terrier of some kind, with perhaps a
bit of greyhound blood in it. There is no scale of points, nor is there
any club organized to foster the breed. It is entirely devoid of hair,
except sometimes a tuft or crest on its head and a few straggling hairs
on various parts of the body. It is a lively little fellow, mostly of a
brown color, and, though devoid of hair, can stand the cold very well. It
has a rounded body, a bit cobby in appearance, with somewhat of a terrier
head. Weight is about 15 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE NEWFOUNDLAND.

[Illustration: BOODLES, ESQ.]


ORIGIN.—Indigenous to Newfoundland, from which it takes its name. This
dog is probably a cross of some of the European dogs, some writers
claiming that it shows the blood of both the St. Bernard and the
water-spaniel.

[Illustration]

USES.—A good companion, and a water-dog as well.

* No Scale of Points adopted.

HEAD.—Broad, massive, flat on skull; occipital bone well developed; no
decided stop. Muzzle short, clean cut, and rather square in shape.

COAT.—Flat, dense, of coarsish texture, oily.

BODY.—Well ribbed up; broad back; neck strong, and muscular loins.

FORE LEGS.—Straight, muscular; elbows well let down, and feather all over.

HIND QUARTERS AND LEGS.—Hind quarters very strong; free action of legs,
which should have little feather. Dew-claws should be removed.

CHEST.—Deep, fairly broad, well covered with hair, but no frill.

BONE.—Massive, but not giving a heavy appearance.

FEET.—Large; splayed or turned-out feet objectionable.

TAIL.—Moderate length (to hocks); well covered with long hair, but no
flag; in repose it should hang downward with a curve at end. Tails with
kinks in them or carried over the back are objectionable.

EARS.—Small, set well back, square with the skull, close to head, and
covered with short hair; no fringe.

EYES.—Small, dark brown, deeply set, but showing no haw; wide apart.

COLOR.—Jet black; a tinge of bronze or splash of white on chest and toes
_not_ objectionable.

HEIGHT AND WEIGHT.—Average height is 27 inches for dog, and 25 inches for
bitch; weight, 100 and 85 pounds respectively.

DEFECTS.—Slack loins and cow-hocked.

[Illustration]




THE POINTER.

[Illustration: Westminster Kennel Club, Babylon, L. I.

KING OF KENT.]


ORIGIN.—The dog originally came from Spain, was imported into Great
Britain, and undergoing many changes, no doubt by crossing with the
foxhound, is to-day a vast improvement on the parent stock.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting all kinds of game-birds.

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                           Value.
    Skull                      10
    Nose                       10
    Ears, eyes, and lips        4
    Neck                        6
    Shoulders and chest        15
    Hind quarters and stifles  15
    Legs, elbows, and hocks    12
    Feet                        8
    Tail                        5
    Coat                        3
    Color                       5
    Symmetry and quality        7
                              ---
                   Total      100

Brains, nose, and speed make the pointer. The countenance should be
lively and intelligent.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Large, flat; stop well defined, and with a depression running
from stop to occiput. The head should not be heavy, as this indicates
coarseness and an unreliable disposition. A full development of occipital
bone is indispensable. Nose large, long, broad (black in all except
lemons and whites, when it should be deep flesh color), deep enough to
make it “square”-muzzled; nostrils large and open. Ears moderately long,
filbert-shaped, and lying flat; set low; leather thin and flexible;
coverings silky. Eyes medium size, not set wide apart, and of the various
shades of brown, varying with color of coat. Lips full; not thick nor
pendulous.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Arched, round, firm, and not too short; _no tendency_ to
throatiness; _no_ dewlap.

SHOULDERS.—Long, sloping, and powerful.

CHEST.—Deep, with narrow sternum, sloping backward to a well-tucked-up
abdomen; ribs moderately sprung, _not flat_.

HIND QUARTERS.—Loins should be broad and slightly arched; hips thick,
strong, and muscular; stifles are generally straight, but should be well
bent.

LEGS.—Good legs are most essential; front legs should be straight and
strong, hind legs well crooked, and both should be covered with strong,
compact muscles, well developed; the elbow- and hock-joints should be
hinged long and set straight with sides of body.

[Illustration]

FEET.—With surface enough to sustain the weight, but not too large; round
and cat-like; pads full and tough; nails short and thick, with plenty of
hair between toes.

TAIL.—Set on well up, and should taper to a decided point; the straighter
it is, the better. It should be carried low, and the action should be
free.

COAT.—Fairly dense, and not too soft.

COLOR.—Liver and white, black and white, orange and white, whole black,
or whole liver, this being the order of preference.

[Illustration]




THE POMERANIAN.

[Illustration: NORMAN. NELLIE.]


[Illustration]

ORIGIN.—Pomerania, on the Baltic Sea, is probably its home; it may,
however, have come from the arctic regions, as it closely resembles the
Samoyeds and Eskimo dogs.

USES.—A pet dog.

* SCALE OF POINTS.

                  Value.
    Head              10
    Muzzle             5
    Ears and eyes      5
    Shoulders          5
    Chest              5
    Loins             10
    Legs              10
    Feet              10
    Coat              15
    Color             15
    Tail               5
    Symmetry           5
                     ---
          Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Resembles greatly that of collie, being even more tapering and
fox-like; a slight furrow down middle of forehead, and more brow than in
that dog; very prominent occiput; muzzle collie-like; nose black at tip,
even in perfectly white specimens; also a slight tendency in upper teeth
to be overshot.

EARS AND EYES.—Ears perfectly pricked, small, and neat in shape. Eyes
large, dark brown, and set obliquely, close together.

SHOULDERS.—Oblique.

CHEST.—Generally round, with back ribs shallow.

LOINS.—Frequently defective from shallow back ribs.

LEGS.—Straight, muscular, with elbows well let down; good, strong
stifles; clean hocks.

FEET.—Small, round, cat-like; thin, and unfit for road-work.

COAT.—Like very coarse fur, with under coat furry also; face is bare of
hair.

COLOR.—Jet black without white; pure white is allowable, also red.

TAIL.—Carried over back on one side (left); heavily feathered.

SYMMETRY.—Of the spitz style.

WEIGHT.—Limit, 20 pounds; 7 pounds preferred.

[Illustration]




THE POODLE (BLACK, CURLY-COATED).

[Illustration: H. G. Trevor’s, Southampton, L. I.

CHAMPION MILO.]


ORIGIN.—There is little doubt but that the poodle of to-day finds its
origin in the old “water-dog” of France, where it was not only used for
retrieving wounded water-fowl, but for swimming-contests, when the hind
parts were clipped or shaven in order to give freer action to the legs.

USES.—A very bright, intelligent companion, and a good retriever.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                            Value.
    Head, muzzle, and eyes      20
    Neck and chest               5
    Back and loins              10
    Legs and feet               15
    Stern                        5
    Coat                        20
    Color                       10
    Symmetry                    15
                               ---
                    Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Strong, active, intelligent, cobby in build, and
perfectly coated with close curls or long “cords.”

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Long; skull large, wide between the eyes, slight peak; parts over
eyes well arched; the whole covered with curls or cords. Muzzle long
(not snipy), slightly tapering, not too deep; stop well defined. Teeth
level and strong; black roof of mouth preferable. Eyes medium size,
dark, bright, and set at right angles with the line of face. Nose large,
perfectly black; wide-open nostrils. Ears very long, close to cheek, low
set, and well covered with ringlets or curls.

NECK.—Very strong, admitting head to be carried high.

CHEST.—Fairly deep, but not too wide, well covered with muscles.

LEGS.—Fore legs perfectly straight, and not so long as to be leggy; hind
legs muscular, well bent, with hocks low down.

FEET.—Strong, slightly spread, standing well on toes; nails black; pads
large and hard.

BACK.—Fair length; well-ribbed-up body; loins strong and muscular.

TAIL.—Carried at angle of 45 degrees, with long ringlets or cords.
Preferable length, 3 to 5 inches.

COAT.—If corded, cords should be thick and strong, hanging in long, ropy
cords. If curly, the curls close, thick, and of silky texture.

WEIGHT.—From 40 to 60 pounds.

Only three colors are admitted, black, white, and red, and they should be
without mixture.

[Illustration]




THE POODLE (BLACK, CORDED).

[Illustration: W. Grebe’s, 1398 Second Avenue, New York.

TELL.]


For origin, uses, scale of points, etc., see The Poodle (Black,
Curly-coated).




THE POODLE (WHITE-AND-RED).


* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

Same as the black poodle, _except_:

EYES.—Yellow or light blue, free from black rims around eyelids.

NOSE.—Red or liver color.

NAILS.—Red or pink.

BACK.—Spots on back should be red or liver, and the entire body free from
black ticks.

[Illustration]




THE PUG (FAWN).

[Illustration: Rookery Kennels, Painesville, O.

HAUGHTY MADGE.]


ORIGIN.—It is generally conceded that this breed is a cross between the
fawn-colored, smooth English terrier and the jet-black Chinese terrier.
Vero Shaw _et al._ concede this point.

USES.—Purely a pet dog, with a fair amount of intelligence.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                   Value.
    Symmetry           10
    Size                5
    Condition           5
    Body               10
    Legs and feet      10
    Head                5
    Muzzle              5
    Ears                5
    Eyes               10
    Mask                5
    Wrinkles            5
    Tail                5
    Trace               5
    Coat                5
    Color               5
    Carriage            5
                      ---
           Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Square and cobby.

SIZE AND CONDITION.—The weight is from 12 to 15 pounds, and the dog
should be shown with bones well covered and muscles well developed.

BODY.—Short and cobby; chest wide; ribs well sprung.

LEGS.—Strong, straight, of moderate length, and well under body.

FEET.—Between style of cat- and harefoot, well-split-up toes, and _black
nails_.

MUZZLE.—Short, square, blunt, but not upturned.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Large, round, _not apple-headed_, with _no_ indentation of the
skull. Eyes dark, very large, bold and prominent, soft and solicitous in
expression, lustrous, and when excited full of fire. Ears thin, small,
and soft. The button-ear is preferred to the rose-ear.

MARKINGS.—Clearly defined: the muzzle or mask, ears, moles on cheeks,
thumb-marks or diamond on forehead, and back trace should be as black as
possible.

MASK.—Black; the more defined, the better.

WRINKLES.—Deep and large.

TAIL.—Curled lightly as possible over hip. The double curl is perfection.

COAT.—Fine, smooth, soft, short, glossy, _neither hard nor woolly_.

COLOR.—Silver or apricot fawn. Each should be very decided, so as to make
a contrast between color and trace.

DEFECTS.—Long-legged or short-legged.

[Illustration]




THE PUG (BLACK).


ORIGIN.—Beyond question a dog of Chinese origin, as Lady Brassey brought
several specimens from there to London, and other travelers have seen
them there.

USES.—A pet dog only.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

Same in all respects as for the fawn pug, excepting that the coat should
be pure black and entirely free from white.




THE RETRIEVER (BLACK, CURLY-COATED).

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)]


ORIGIN.—The breed is about fifty years old, and probably is a cross
of the old English or Irish water-spaniel with setter, collie, or
Newfoundland.

USES.—Retrieving wounded game and birds.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                Value.
    Skull                           10
    Nose and jaws                   10
    Ears and eyes                    5
    Neck                             5
    Loins and back                  10
    Quarters and stifles             5
    Shoulders                        6
    Chest                            4
    Legs, knees, and hocks           5
    Feet                             5
    Tail                             5
    Texture of coat and bareness
      of face                       15
    Color                            5
    Symmetry and temperament        10
                                   ---
                        Total      100

[Illustration]

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—A strong, smart dog, moderately low on leg, active,
lively, and intelligent.

HEAD.—Long and narrow for length. Ears rather small, set low, carried
close to head, covered with short curls. Jaws long, strong, free from
lippiness. Nose black, with wide-open nostrils. Eyes dark, rather large,
showing good temper. Pug eye objectionable.

[Illustration]

COAT.—A mass of short, crisp curls from occiput to point of tail; a
saddleback or patch of uncurled hair behind shoulders.

COLOR.—Black or liver; a white patch on chest penalizing.

NECK.—Long, graceful, muscular, free from throatiness.

SHOULDERS.—_Very_ deep, muscular, obliquely placed; chest not too wide,
but deep; body rather short, well ribbed, and muscular.

[Illustration]

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs straight, bone plenty; not too long, well set
under body. Feet round, compact; toes well arched.

LOINS.—Powerful and deep.

TAIL.—Carried pretty straight, and covered with short curls.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 55 to 68 pounds; bitches, 5 pounds less.

[Illustration]




THE RETRIEVER (BLACK, FLAT- OR WAVY-COATED).

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)]


ORIGIN AND USES same as the black, curly-coated variety.

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                              Value.
    Skull                         10
    Nose and jaws                 10
    Ears and eyes                  5
    Neck                           5
    Loins and back                10
    Quarters and stifles          10
    Shoulders                      6
    Chest                          4
    Legs, knees, and hocks        10
    Feet                           5
    Tail                           5
    Coat                           5
    Color                          5
    Symmetry and temperament      10
                                 ---
                      Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Bone at top wide and flat, with furrow down middle; brows not
pronounced. Ears small, set low, carried close to head (not hound-like),
covered with short hair. Eyes medium size, dark, mild, and intelligent.
Nose wide; nostrils open. Jaws strong and long. Teeth level.

NECK.—Long enough to allow dog to stoop when trailing; loins and back
wide, deep, and strong.

[Illustration]

QUARTERS AND STIFLES.—Muscular quarters, with nicely turned stifles.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders long, sloping; chest deep and broad; ribs
well sprung.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs strong, long, and muscular, clean, and free from
lumber; knees broad; hocks well developed and clean. Feet rather large,
compact, with well-arched toes; soles thick and strong.

TAIL.—Bushy (not feathery); carried gaily, but not over back.

COAT.—Not so short as the pointer’s, close, thick, and straight as
possible.

[Illustration]

COLOR.—Rich black, free from rustiness and white.

SYMMETRY.—Highly valued, likewise evidence of good temper.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 50 to 70 pounds; bitches smaller.

[Illustration]




THE ST. BERNARD (ROUGH-COATED).

[Illustration: LEEDS BARRY.]


ORIGIN.—This is a point of great uncertainty, as the monks of St. Bernard
are utterly unable to throw any light on the subject. According to
tradition, however, the race sprang from a cross of a bitch of Denmark of
the bulldog species, and the mastiff (shepherd-dog) of the Pyrenees. The
size comes from the Denmark dog, and the sense of smell from the mastiff.
The St. Bernard was first imported into England in 1815.

[Illustration]

USES.—An invaluable house-dog, guardian, and companion. Used on the Swiss
mountains by the monks to find and succor lost travelers.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                Value.
    Head, ears, and eyes            25
    Expression and character        15
    Neck, shoulders, and chest      10
    Body                            15
    Stern                            5
    Legs and feet                   10
    Coat                            10
    Color and markings              10
                                   ---
                        Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Large, massive, the circumference twice the length; short from
stop to tip of nose; full below eye; square muzzle; great depth from eye
to lower jaw. Lips deep, not too pendulous. Stop abrupt, well defined,
and straight to end of nose. Skull broad, rounded at top, _not_ domed;
prominent brow. Ears medium size, close to cheek, strong at base, heavily
feathered. Eyes rather small, deep set, dark, not too close together;
lower eyelid drooping, showing haw. Nose large, black; well-developed
nostrils. Teeth level.

EXPRESSION.—Denoting benevolence, dignity, and intelligence.

NECK.—Lengthy, muscular, slightly arched; dewlap developed.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders broad, sloping; chest wide and deep.

BODY.—Level back, slightly arched over loins; ribs well rounded; loins
wide and muscular.

TAIL.—Set on rather high; long, bushy; carried low in repose, slightly
above _line_ of back when in motion.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs perfectly straight, strong. Hind legs heavy
in bone, well bent at hocks; thighs muscular. Feet compact and large;
well-arched toes.

[Illustration]

SIZE.—Dogs, 30 inches at shoulder; bitches, 27 inches (the taller, the
better, if proportioned well). General outline suggests great power and
endurance.

COAT.—Dense, flat, rather full around neck; thighs not too heavily
feathered.

COLOR AND MARKINGS.—Red, orange, various shades of brindle, or white with
patches of above colors. Markings should be: white muzzle and blaze on
face, collar around neck; white on chest, fore legs, feet, and end of
tail; black shadings on face and ears. If blaze be wide, running through
collar, a spot of body-color should be on top of head.

DISQUALIFYING POINTS.—Dudley, liver-colored nose; fawn if whole-colored
or with black shadings only; black, black and tan, black and white,
black, tan, and white, and all white, though an all white has taken high
honors under one of our best judges.

[Illustration]




THE ST. BERNARD (SMOOTH-COATED).

[Illustration: CHAMPION SCOTTISH LEADER.]


[Illustration]

ORIGIN, USES, AND * SCALE OF POINTS are the same as the rough-coated
variety, with the exception of the coat, which should be very dense,
broken-haired, lying smooth, tough without being rough to the touch, with
thighs slightly bushy.

[Illustration]

The tail at root is covered with longer and denser hair than on body, the
hair gradually growing shorter at the tip; the tail is bushy, but has no
feather.

[Illustration]




THE SCHIPPERKE.

[Illustration: W. J. Comstock’s, Providence, R. I.

MIDNIGHT. DARKNESS.]


ORIGIN.—Wholly Dutch, but how far back it dates is unknown.

USES.—The canal-boatmen in Holland use this “little beggar” as a guard
against intruders, as well as to advise the captain of an approaching
boat. It will kill rats, swims like a duck, and as a companion is not
surpassed.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                               Value.
    Head, nose, eyes, and teeth    20
    Ears                           10
    Neck, shoulders, and chest     10
    Back and loins                  5
    Fore legs                       5
    Hind legs                       5
    Feet                            5
    Hind quarters                  10
    Coat and color                 20
    General appearance             10
                                  ---
                       Total      100

[Illustration]

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—A small, cobby dog, with sharp expression, lively,
always on the alert.

HEAD.—Foxy in type; skull broad, not round; little stop. Muzzle fine,
not weak, well filled out below eyes. Nose black and small. Eyes
small, dark brown, not full, more round than oval, bright, and full of
expression. Ears moderate length, tapering, carried stiffly erect and at
right angles with skull. Teeth strong and level.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Short, strong, full, and stiffly arched.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders muscular, sloping; chest deep and broad.

BACK.—Short, straight, strong; loins powerful and well drawn up.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs perfectly straight, well under body, good bone.
Hind legs strong; hocks well let down. Feet small, cat-like; nails black.

HIND QUARTERS.—Fine compared to fore parts, muscular, well developed;
rump well rounded; tailless.

COAT.—Black, abundant, dense, harsh; smooth on head, ears, and legs;
lying close on back and sides; erect and thick around neck, forming a
mane and frill; well feathered on thighs.

WEIGHT.—About 12 pounds.

DEFECTS.—White hairs are objected to.

DISQUALIFYING POINTS.—Drop or semi-erect ears.

[Illustration]




THE SETTER (ENGLISH).

[Illustration: J. T. Kent’s, 2009 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

KENT RODERIGO.]


ORIGIN.—Best authorities claim it to be descended from the old Spanish
setting-spaniel.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting all kinds of game-birds.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                 Value.
    Skull                             5
    Nose                              5
    Ears, lips, and eyes             10
    Neck                              5
    Shoulders and chest              15
    Back, quarters, and stifles      15
    Legs, elbows, and hocks          12
    Feet                              8
    Flag                              5
    Symmetry and quality             10
    Coat                              5
    Color                             5
                                    ---
                         Total      100

HEAD.—Considerable prominence of occipital bone, moderately narrow
between ears, with decided brow over eyes. Nose long, wide, without
fullness under eye; nostrils large and wide apart. Dark specimens should
have black nose; for orange and whites, or lemon and whites, a colored
nose is desirable. Jaws level, and of equal length. Ears small, shorter
than a pointer’s, and carried close to cheeks, partly clothed with silky
hair; leather thin and soft. Lips not full nor pendulous. Eyes medium
size, animated, best colors being brown.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Not throaty; skin rather loose; slightly arched.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders sloping; elbows well let down; chest deep;
ribs well sprung, with great depth of back ribs.

BACK.—Arched over loins, but not wheel-back; stifles well bent, set wide
apart.

LEGS, ELBOWS, AND TOES.—Legs straight; arms muscular; knees broad and
strong; pasterns short; hind legs muscular, plenty of bone; hocks clean
and strong.

[Illustration]

FEET.—Either cat- or harefoot; but either must be well clothed with hair
and between toes.

FLAG.—Sweeps gently downward; feather plenty, straight and silky.

COAT.—Soft, silky, without curl.

COLOR.—Black and white, ticked with large splashes and more or less
marked with black; orange and white, liver and white, ticked as above;
black and white, ticked with tan markings; orange or lemon and white;
black and white; liver and white.

[Illustration]




THE SETTER (GORDON).

[Illustration: J. R. Oughton’s, Dwight, Ill.

HEATHER LAD.]


[Illustration]

ORIGIN.—The Duke of Gordon claims to be the originator of this breed
(1820), being the outcome of a cross with a breed of setters he then
owned, and one of his very keen-nosed collies.

USES.—Hunting all kinds of game-birds.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                         Value.
    Head and neck            35
    Shoulders and chest      12
    Loins and quarters       12
    Feet and legs            16
    Color                    10
    Coat and feather         10
    Tail                      5
                            ---
                 Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Heavier than the English setter’s, broad at top between ears; skull
slightly rounded; occiput well developed. Nose moderately long and broad
across top; nostrils well distended. Some good ones show slight dewlap
and haw.

BODY.—Heavier than the English setter’s, but may be judged on same lines.

[Illustration]

COLOR.—This is of great importance. The colors are black and tan. The
black should be jet black (not brown nor rusty); the tan, a rich dark
mahogany, grown on inside of thighs, down front of stifles, and on front
legs to knees; muzzle also tan; spots over eyes well defined, also those
on the points of shoulders.

[Illustration]




THE SETTER (IRISH).

[Illustration: G. Shippen’s, 160 East Thirty-eighth Street, New York.

SHAMROCK O’MORE.]


ORIGIN.—Probably the same as that of the English setter, the color now
making it a distinct breed. It was originally red and white.

USES.—Hunting all kinds of game-birds.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                         Value.
    Head                                     10
    Eyes                                      5
    Ears                                      5
    Neck                                      5
    Body                                     15
    Shoulders, fore legs, and feet           12
    Hind legs                                10
    Tail                                      8
    Coat and feather                          8
    Color                                     8
    Size, style, and general appearance      14
                                            ---
                                 Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Long and lean; skull oval (from ear to ear), with well-defined
occipital protuberance; brows raised, showing stop; muzzle moderately
deep, fairly square at end; from stop to point of nose should be long;
nostrils wide, and jaws of nearly equal length; flews not pendulous.
Color of nose dark mahogany or dark chocolate, that of eyes (which ought
not to be too large) rich hazel or brown. Ears of moderate size, fine in
texture, set on low, well back, and hanging in a neat fold close to head.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Moderately long, very muscular, but not too thick, slightly arched,
free from throatiness.

BODY.—Proportionately long; shoulders fine at the points, deep, and
sloping well back; chest deep, rather narrow in front; ribs well sprung;
loins muscular and slightly arched; hind quarters wide and powerful.

LEGS AND FEET.—Hind legs from hip to hock long and muscular, from hock
to heel short and strong; stifles and hock-joints well bent, and not
inclined either in or out. Fore legs strong, sinewy, having plenty of
bone, with elbows free, well let down, and not inclined either out or in.
Feet rather small, very firm; toes strong, close together, and arched.

TAIL.—Moderate length, set on rather low, strong at root, and tapering
to a fine point; carried in a slight, simitar-like curve, or straight,
nearly level with back.

[Illustration]

COAT.—On head, front of legs, and tips of ears short and fine, but on all
other parts of body of moderate length, flat, and as free as possible
from curl or wave.

FEATHERING.—The feather on upper portion of ears long and silky, on back
of fore and hind legs long and fine; a fair amount of hair on belly,
forming a nice fringe, which may extend on chest and throat; feet well
feathered between toes; tail to have a nice fringe of moderately long
hair, decreasing in length as it approaches the point. All feathering as
_straight_ and flat as possible.

COLOR AND MARKINGS.—Color a rich golden chestnut or mahogany red, with
no trace whatever of black; white on chest, throat, or toes, or a small
star on forehead, or a narrow streak or blaze on nose or face, _not_ to
disqualify.

[Illustration]




THE SHEEP-DOG (OLD ENGLISH OR BOBTAIL).

[Illustration: Wilford Kennels, Cohoes, N. Y.

BOXER III.]


ORIGIN.—It is claimed by the Welsh that this is purely a breed belonging
to their own country.

USES.—Same as the rough and smooth varieties of collie.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                    Value.
    Skull                               10
    Jaw, eyes, and nose                 15
    Color                               10
    Teeth and ears                      10
    Legs (if coated)                    10
    Tail (undocked)                     10
    Neck and shoulders                  10
    Body, loins, and hind quarters      10
    Coat                                10
    Markings                             5
                                       ---
                            Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Strong, compact, cobby dog, profusely coated all
over; moves bear-like.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Skull capacious, rather square; parts over eyes well arched; the
whole well covered with hair. Jaw fairly long and square. Stop slightly
defined. Eyes in dark blue should be dark brown; in lighter colors they
will follow them, and where white predominates a wall eye is typical.
Nose black and fairly large. Teeth strong, firm, and even. Ears medium,
heavy, and carried close.

NECK AND SHOULDERS.—Neck long, arched, graceful, well coated; shoulders
sloping, so that the dog is lower here than at hind quarters.

FORE LEGS.—Straight, plenty of bone, not “leggy,” well coated.

FEET.—Round, large, toes arched, pads hard.

TAIL.—All other points being equal, the tailless specimen wins over the
one with a tail; the less he has of it, the better.

BODY.—Rather short, very compact; ribs well sprung; brisket deep; loins
very stout, arched; hind quarters bulky.

COAT.—Profuse, fairly hard and strong; double-coated, as in the rough
collie.

[Illustration]

COLOR.—Dark, light, or pigeon blue, and steel gray, generally mixed with
white; white collars, legs, chest, and face greatly desired.

HEIGHT.—Twenty inches and upward.

Stonehenge says: “Usually these ‘bobs’ are strongly made and symmetrical
dogs, but without any definite type; they have frequently a tendency
to the brindle in color.” In awarding prizes, the premier honors seem
generally to go to the homeliest specimens.

[Illustration]




THE SPANIEL (CLUMBER).

[Illustration: Newcastle Kennels, Brookline, Mass.

FRIAR BOSS.]


ORIGIN.—It is claimed that this breed originated at Clumber, the seat of
the Duke of Newcastle, though records say it was imported by the duke
from the kennels of the Duc de Noailles, and possesses a strain of Basset
blood. It certainly has some resemblance to that breed of French dogs.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting game-birds, and generally runs mute.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                 Value.
    General appearance and size      10
    Head                             15
    Eyes                              5
    Ears                             10
    Neck and shoulders               15
    Body and quarters                20
    Legs and feet                    10
    Coat and feather                 10
    Color and markings                5
                                    ---
                         Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE AND SIZE.—A long, low, heavy-looking dog, of a very
thoughtful expression, betokening great intelligence; should have the
appearance of great power, but not clumsiness. Weight of dogs, 55 to 65
pounds; bitches, 35 to 50 pounds.

HEAD.—Large, massive, round above eyes, flat on top, a furrow running up
from between the eyes; a marked stop, and large occipital protuberance.
Jaw long, broad, and deep; lips of upper jaw overhung. Muzzle not square,
but powerful-looking. Nostrils large, open, and flesh-colored, sometimes
cherry-colored. Eyes large, soft, deep set, showing haw; hazel in color,
not too pale. Ears long, broad at the top, turned over on front edge,
vine-shaped, close to head, set on low; feathered only on front edge, and
but slightly. Hair short, silky, without slightest approach to wave or
curl.

[Illustration]

NECK AND SHOULDERS.—Neck long, thick, powerful, free from dewlap, with
a large ruff; shoulders immensely strong, muscular, giving a heavy
appearance in front.

BODY AND QUARTERS.—Body very long and low, well ribbed up, and long in
the coupling; chest of great depth and volume; loins powerful, and not
too much arched; back long, broad, and straight, free from droop or bow.
Length an important characteristic; the nearer the dog is in length to
being two and a half times its height at shoulder, the better. Quarters
shapely and very muscular, neither drooping nor stilty.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs short, straight, immensely heavy in bone, well
in at elbow. Hind legs heavy in bone, but not as heavy as fore legs; no
feather below hocks, but thick hair on back of leg just above foot. Feet
large, compact, and plentifully filled with hair between toes.

COAT AND FEATHER.—Coat silky and straight, not too long, extremely dense;
feather long and abundant.

COLOR AND MARKINGS.—Color lemon and white, and orange and white; the
fewer markings, the better. Perfection is solid lemon or orange ears,
evenly marked head, muzzle and leg ticked.

STERN.—Set on level, and carried low.

[Illustration]




THE SPANIEL (COCKER).

[Illustration: A. C. Wilmerding’s, 165 Broadway, New York.

WATNONG I.]


ORIGIN.—Presumably an offshoot of the field-spaniel.

USES.—Hunting, principally woodcock and partridge.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                        Value.
    General appearance      10
    Head                    15
    Eyes                     5
    Ears                    10
    Neck and shoulders      10
    Body                    15
    Length                   5
    Legs and feet           15
    Coat                    10
    Tail                     5
                           ---
                Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE, SYMMETRY, ETC.—A well-built, graceful, and active
dog, showing strength without heaviness. Any of the spaniel colors is
allowable. (See Field-spaniel.) Weight not over 28 nor less than 18
pounds.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Fair length; muzzle cut off square, tapering gradually from the
eye, not snipy; skull rising in a graceful curve from stop, and with same
outline at occiput, the curve line being flatter, but still curving at
middle of skull. Head should be narrowest at the eyes, and broadest at
set-on of ears, and, viewed from the front, outline between ears should
be a nearly perfect segment of a circle. Stop is marked, and a groove
runs up the skull, gradually becoming less apparent, till lost about
half-way to occiput. This prevents the domed King Charles skull, and
produces a light, graceful, well-balanced head. Jaws level. Teeth strong,
regular. Eyes round and moderately full, corresponding in color with
coat. Ears lobular, set on low; leather fine, and not extending beyond
nose; well clothed with long, silky hair, which _must_ be straight or
wavy—no positive curls or ringlets.

NECK AND SHOULDERS.—Neck sufficiently long to allow the nose to reach the
ground easily; muscular, and running into well-shaped, sloping shoulders.

BODY.—Ribs well sprung; chest of fair width and depth; body well ribbed
back, short in the coupling; flank free from any tucked-up appearance;
loins strong; length from tip of nose to root of tail about twice the
height at shoulder.

[Illustration]

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs short, strong in bone and muscle, straight,
neither bent in nor out at elbows; pasterns straight, short, and strong;
elbows well let down. Hind legs strong; well-bent stifles; hocks
straight, and near the ground. Feet of good size, round, turning neither
in nor out; toes not too spreading; soles furnished with hard, horny
pads, with plenty of hair between the toes.

COAT.—Abundant, soft, and silky, straight or wavy, without curl; chest,
legs, and tail well feathered; no topknot nor curly hair on top of head.

TAIL.—Usually docked; carried nearly level with back. At work it is
carried lower, with a quick, nervous action which is characteristic of
the breed.

[Illustration]




THE SPANIEL (FIELD).

[Illustration: Rowland P. Keasbey’s, 874 Broadway, New York.

BLACK NIGHT.]


ORIGIN.—Probably one of the oldest of the known breeds, coming originally
from Spain; in fact, it is claimed as the parent of the setter.

[Illustration]

USES.—Hunting game-birds, principally woodcock and partridge.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                        Value.
    Head                    15
    Ears                    10
    Neck                     5
    Shoulders and arms      10
    Legs and feet           15
    Body and quarters       20
    Coat and feather        15
    Tail                    10
                           ---
                Total      100

[Illustration]

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Considerably larger, heavier, stronger in build than
the cocker. Conformation should be long and low, more so than the cocker.
Colors most preferred are solid black or liver; but liver and white,
black and white, black and tan, orange, and orange and white are all
legitimate spaniel colors.

HEAD.—Long, and not too wide, carried gracefully; skull showing
clearly cut brows, but without a very pronounced stop; occiput
distinct, and rising considerably above set-on of ears. Muzzle long,
with well-developed nose, not too thick immediately in front of eye,
and maintaining nearly same breadth to the point; sufficient flew to
give a certain squareness to muzzle and avoid snipiness. Teeth sound
and regular. Eyes intelligent and dark, not showing haw, nor so large
as to be prominent or goggle-eyed. Ears long, and hung low on skull,
lobe-shaped, and covered with straight or slightly wavy silky feather.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Long, graceful, and free from throatiness; not too thick, but
strongly set into shoulders and brisket.

SHOULDERS AND ARMS.—Shoulder-blades should lie obliquely, with sufficient
looseness of attachment to give freedom to forearms, which should be well
let down.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs straight, very strong and short. Hind legs well
bent at stifle-joint, with plenty of muscular power. Feet of good size,
with thick, well-developed pads; not flat nor spreading.

[Illustration]

BODY AND QUARTERS.—Long, with well-sprung ribs; strong, slightly arching
loins, well coupled to the quarters, which may droop slightly toward
stern.

COAT AND FEATHER.—Coat as straight and flat as possible, silky in
texture, of sufficient denseness to afford good protection to the skin
in thorny coverts, and moderately long; feather long and ample, straight
or very slightly wavy, heavily fringing ears, back of fore legs, between
toes, and on back of quarters.

TAIL.—Strong, and not carried higher than level of back.

[Illustration]




THE SPANIEL (IRISH WATER).

[Illustration: T. A. Carson’s, Kingston, Ontario.

MUSHA.]


ORIGIN.—This cannot be traced, yet it is supposed to have a decided cross
of the poodle.

USES.—Retrieving wounded game from the water.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                  Value.
    Head, jaw, eyes, and topknot      20
    Ears                               5
    Neck                               5
    Body                              10
    Fore legs                         10
    Hind legs                         10
    Feet                               5
    Stern                             10
    Coat                              15
    General appearance                10
                                     ---
                          Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—A strong, somewhat leggy dog.

HEAD.—Skull medium length, rather broad; very little stop Muzzle long,
and broad to end. Eyes dark brown, and very intelligent. Ears long, and
covered with curls.

NECK.—Long, slightly arched, and muscular.

BODY.—Fair-sized; barrel well rounded and ribbed up.

NOSE.—Liver-colored, large, and well developed.

[Illustration]

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders long and oblique; chest deep, but not very
wide.

BACK AND LOINS.—Back strong and flat; loins strong, fair length, and a
trifle arched.

[Illustration]

HIND QUARTERS.—Long; hocks well let down, and stifles straighter than in
other varieties of spaniels.

STERN.—Strong at root, and tapering to a fine point; the hair on it must
be quite short, straight, and close-lying.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs well boned and quite straight, somewhat long. Feet
rather large.

COAT.—All over little curls, hard, but not woolly. The topknot of long
hair should fall over the eyes in a peak, and legs should have as little
feather on them as possible.

COLOR.—A rich, dark liver. White on toes or breast a _defect_, but not a
disqualification.

NEGATIVE POINTS.

                      Value.
    Feather on stern      10
    White on chest         5

[Illustration]




THE SPANIEL (JAPANESE).

[Illustration: W. J. Burkhardt’s, 1301 Broadway, Brooklyn, N. Y.

JINGO.]


ORIGIN.—A native of Japan, where it is also called the “sleeve-dog,” on
account of being carried there by the “swells” of that country.

USES.—Simply a pet dog, and extremely intelligent.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                   Value.
    Head—size and shape of skull       10
    Shortness of face and muzzle       10
    Width of muzzle                     5
    Eyes                               10
    Ears                               10
    Coat and markings                  15
    Size and symmetry                  20
    Legs and feet                      10
    Tail                               10
                                      ---
                           Total      100

HEAD AND NECK.—Head large, broad; slightly rounded skull; neck short,
and moderately thick. Eyes large, dark, lustrous, rather prominent, wide
apart. Muzzle strong, wide, very short from stop to nose; jaws upturned;
teeth not to be shown; nose very short, the end wide with open nostrils,
and same color as markings. Ears small, V-shaped; well feathered, set
high, and wide apart; carried forward.

BODY.—Compact, squarely built, cobby, the body and legs forming a square.

[Illustration]

LEGS AND FEET.—Bones of legs small, slender, well feathered. Feet small,
cat-like; the feather increasing the length, _never_ the width.

TAIL.—Carried over back in tight curl; profusely feathered.

COAT.—Profuse, long, straight, rather silky, free from wave, not too flat.

COLOR.—Black, red, or white; parti-colors with white ground preferred.
Blenheim markings are most showy. In variation of markings the colors
_must_ remain distinct.

WEIGHT.—Four to nine pounds; the smaller, the better.

[Illustration]




THE SPANIEL (SUSSEX).

[Illustration: Rowland P. Keasbey’s, 874 Broadway, New York.

COLESHILL RUFUS.]


ORIGIN.—It is impossible to trace this origin.

USES.—Hunting pheasants, and sometimes for its fur.

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                        Value.
    Head and jaw            15
    Eyes                     5
    Ears                     5
    Neck                     5
    Body                    15
    Fore legs               10
    Hind legs               10
    Feet                     5
    Stern                    5
    Coat and feather        10
    General appearance      15
                           ---
                Total      100

[Illustration]

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—Rather massive and muscular, but with free movements
and nice tail action.

HEAD.—Moderately long, massive, with depth in proportion; skull broad,
and forehead prominent. Eyes hazel, fairly large, and languishing,
not showing haw overmuch. Ears thick, fairly large, lobe-shaped; set
moderately low, but relatively not so low as in black or other spaniels;
carried close to head, and furnished with wavy hair.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Muscular, and slightly arched.

BODY.—Long, with well-sprung ribs; fair depth behind shoulders.

NOSE.—Liver color; muzzle large and square; lips somewhat pendulous;
nostrils well developed.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders oblique; chest deep and wide.

BACK AND LOINS.—Back level and long; loins broad.

HIND QUARTERS.—Strong; thighs muscular, and hocks low down.

[Illustration]

STERN.—Docked from 5 to 8 inches; set low; not carried above level of
back.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs short and strong; immense bone, and a slight bend in
forearm. Feet large, round, and moderately well feathered, with short
hair between toes.

COAT.—Body-coat abundant; flat or slightly waved, with no tendency to
curl; moderately well feathered on legs and stern, but clean below hocks.

COLOR.—Dark golden liver; not a light ginger or snuff color, but of a
rich bronze tinge, not puce.

WEIGHT.—From 35 to 45 pounds.

[Illustration]




SPANIELS (TOY)—BLENHEIM, KING CHARLES, PRINCE CHARLES, AND RUBY.

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)

RUBY SPANIEL. PRINCE CHARLES SPANIEL.]


ORIGIN.—Shrouded in mystery. The King Charles spaniel derives its name
from the second monarch of that name, and the Blenheim from the family
seat of the Duke of Marlborough. The colors were originally black, tan,
and white for the first breed, and orange or red and white for the second.

USES.—Essentially pet dogs, though at one time the Blenheim was used for
hunting birds.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

_King Charles, Prince Charles, and Ruby._

                                   Value.
    Symmetry, condition, and size      20
    Head                               15
    Stop                                5
    Muzzle                             10
    Eyes                               10
    Ears                               15
    Coat and feathering                15
    Color                              10
                                      ---
                           Total      100

_Blenheim._

                                   Value.
    Symmetry, condition, and size      20
    Head                               15
    Stop                                5
    Muzzle                             10
    Eyes                                5
    Ears                               10
    Coat and feathering                15
    Color and markings                 15
    Spot                                5
                                      ---
                           Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Well domed, and in good specimens absolutely semi-globular,
sometimes even extending beyond the half-circle, and absolutely
projecting over eyes, so as nearly to meet upturned nose.

EYES.—Set wide apart, with eyelids square to line of face, not oblique
or fox-like; large, lustrous, very dark in color, so as to be generally
considered black; their enormous pupils, which are absolutely of that
color, increasing the description.

[Illustration: KING OF THE BLENHEIMS

Mrs. F. Senn’s, 278 West Eleventh Street, New York.]

STOP.—Well marked as in bulldog, or even more so, some good specimens
exhibiting a hollow deep enough to bury a small marble.

NOSE.—Short, well turned up, without any indication of artificial
displacement; color of end black, and both deep and wide, with open
nostrils.

JAW.—Lower jaw wide, leaving plenty of space for tongue and for
attachment of lower lips, which should completely conceal teeth; also
turned up or “finished,” so as to allow of its meeting end of upper jaw,
turned up in a similar way.

EARS.—Long, so as to approach the ground; in an average-sized dog they
measure 20 inches from tip to tip, and some reach 22 inches; set low on
head; heavily feathered. In this respect the King Charles is expected to
exceed the Blenheim, and his ears occasionally extend to 24 inches.

SIZE.—The most desirable size is about 10 pounds.

SHAPE.—In compactness of shape these spaniels almost rival the pug, being
decidedly cobby, with strong, stout legs, broad back, and wide chest.

COAT.—Long, silky, soft, and wavy, but not curly. In the Blenheim
there should be a profuse mane, extending well down in front of chest.
Feather well displayed on ears and feet, where it is so long as to give
appearance of their being webbed; also carried well up the backs of the
legs. In the King Charles, feather on ears is very long and profuse,
exceeding that of Blenheim by an inch or more. The feather on tail (which
is about 3½ or 4 inches) should be silky, and from 5 to 6 inches in
length, constituting a marked flag of a square shape, and not carried
above level of back.

[Illustration: DUKE OF CHESTER

Mrs. F. Senn’s, 278 West Eleventh Street, New York.

KING CHARLES SPANIEL.]

[Illustration]

COLOR.—Varies with the breed. The King Charles is a rich, glossy black
and deep tan, _without white_; tan spots over eyes and on cheeks, and
the usual markings on legs, are also required. The Blenheim must on no
account be whole-colored, but have a ground of pure, pearly white, with
bright, rich chestnut or ruby-red markings evenly distributed in large
patches; ears and cheeks red; a blaze of white extending from nose up
to forehead, and ending between ears in a crescentic curve; in center
of this blaze there should be a clear spot of red, size of a sixpence.
The tricolor, or Charles the First spaniel, should have the tan of the
King Charles, with markings like Blenheim, in black instead of red, on a
pearly white ground; ears and under the tail should also be lined with
tan. The tricolor has no spot, that beauty being peculiarly the property
of the Blenheim.

The only name by which the tricolor, or black, white, and tan, in future
shall be recognized, is Prince Charles.

That in future the all-red toy spaniel be known by name of Ruby spaniel;
the color of nose to be black. The points of the Ruby to be same as those
of King Charles, differing only in color.

Black-and-tan spaniels with markings of white shall be entered in Prince
Charles class, and red spaniels with white markings must go into Blenheim
class.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (AIREDALE).

[Illustration: F. H. F. Mercer’s, Ottawa, Canada.

WEAVER.]


ORIGIN.—Probably a cross of otter-hound and some of the large breed of
terriers. Most numerously found in the valley of the Aire and about
Bradford, England.

USES.—A gamy vermin-dog.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                Value.
    Head                            20
    Ears                             8
    Neck, shoulders, and chest      12
    Back and loins                  15
    Hind quarters and stern          5
    Legs and feet                   15
    Coat and color                  20
    Weight                           5
                                   ---
                        Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Skull flat, moderately narrow, tapering slightly to eyes, free from
wrinkle. No perceptible stop or indentation between skull and muzzle,
except in profile. Jaw long and powerful, free from flews, rather deep,
and moderately square at end. Nose black; nostrils large. Mouth level;
teeth large and sound. Eyes small, bright, dark in color, with terrier
expression. Ears V-shaped, moderate in size and thickness; carried
forward as in a fox-terrier; free from long, silky hair.

NECK.—Fair length, gradually widening to shoulders; well carried; free
from throatiness.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders fine, long, and sloping; chest deep,
muscular, but neither full nor wide.

BACK AND LOINS.—Back short, straight, and strong; ribs well sprung and
rounded; loins broad and powerful, and well ribbed up.

HIND QUARTERS.—Strong, powerful, thick through hams; good muscular second
thighs, and stifles fairly bent; no tendency to cow-hocks.

STERN.—Stout and docked; set on rather high, but not raised to a right
angle with back.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs straight and well furnished with bone. Feet round and
close, with a good thick sole.

COAT.—Rough or broken; dense and wiry in texture; free from lock or curl.

COLOR.—Dark grizzle back from occiput to end of tail, extending also down
sides of body, with dark markings on side of skull; rest of body a good
tan, darker on ears than elsewhere.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 40 to 45 pounds; bitches, 35 to 40 pounds.

[Illustration]

DISQUALIFICATIONS.—A Dudley nose; white on throat, face, or feet;
white on any other part of body objectionable; a thoroughly bad mouth,
i.e., minus a number of teeth, and others cankered; undershot; partial
blindness objectionable.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (BEDLINGTON).

[Illustration: (From _Modern Dogs_.)]


ORIGIN.—Supposed both by conformation and color to have sprung from the
Dandie Dinmont and otter-hound. The breed is _not_ an old one, by any
means.

USES.—A gamy vermin-dog.

[Illustration]

* No scale of points adopted.

HEAD.—Skull narrow, deep, and rounded, high at occiput; covered with
silky tuft or topknot. Jaw long, tapering, sharp, and muscular; little
or no stop; lips close-fitting, and no flew. Eyes small and deep set.
The blues should have dark eyes; blue and tans, dark, with amber shade;
livers, sandies, etc., light brown. Nose small. Blues, and blue and tans,
have black noses; livers and sandies, flesh-colored. Teeth level. Ears
moderately large, filbert-shaped; carried well forward; flat to cheek;
thinly covered, and tipped with fine, silky hair.

LEGS.—Of moderate length, not wide apart, straight, with good-sized,
rather long foot.

TAIL.—Thick at root, tapering; slightly feathered; 9 to 11 inches long,
and scimitar-shaped.

[Illustration]

NECK AND SHOULDERS.—Neck long, deep at base, and rising well from
shoulders, which should be flat.

BODY.—Long, flat-ribbed, deep, not wide in chest; slightly arched back,
well ribbed; light quarters.

COAT.—Hard, with close bottom, and not lying flat to sides.

COLOR.—Dark blue, blue and tan, liver, liver and tan, sandy, and sandy
and tan.

HEIGHT.—Fifteen to sixteen inches.

WEIGHT.—Fifteen to twenty-five pounds.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (BLACK-AND-TAN).

[Illustration: Rochelle Kennels, New Rochelle, N. Y.

BROOMFIELD SULTAN.]


ORIGIN.—This breed was until very recently known as the Manchester
(England) terrier, and was probably brought into existence by the
operatives of that city.

USES.—A gamy vermin-dog, and a nice companion.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                   Value.
    Head                               20
    Eyes                               10
    Ears                                5
    Legs                               10
    Feet                               10
    Body                               10
    Tail                                5
    Color and markings                 15
    General appearance
      (including terrier quality)      15
                                      ---
                           Total      100

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Long, almost flat, narrow, level, and wedge-shaped, without showing
cheek muscles; well filled up under eyes; tapering, tightly lipped jaws;
level teeth. Ears, if cropped, must stand perfectly erect; if uncropped,
small, thin, and V-shaped, hanging close to head above eyes. Eyes very
small, sparkling, and dark, set fairly close together, and oblong in
shape. Nose perfectly black.

NECK AND SHOULDERS.—Neck fairly long, tapering from shoulders to head,
free from throatiness, slightly arched; shoulders sloping.

CHEST.—Narrow but deep.

BODY.—Moderately short; powerful loins; ribs well sprung; back slightly
arched at loins, falling again at joining of tail to same height as the
shoulders.

LEGS.—Perfectly straight, set well under body, fair length.

FEET.—More inclined to be cat- than hare-footed; black toe-nails.

TAIL.—Moderately short, thick where it joins body, tapering to a point,
not carried higher than the back.

COAT.—Close, smooth, short, and glossy, not soft.

COLOR.—Black and mahogany tan, distributed distinctly over body. On head,
tan to the nose; nasal bone jet black; bright spot on each cheek and
above each eye. Under jaw and throat are tan; hair inside ear of same
color. Fore legs tan to knee, with black lines up each toe and black mark
above the foot. Inside hind legs tan, divided with black at hock-joint.
Under tail tan, and each side of chest is tanned slightly.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (BOSTON).

[Illustration: Squantum Kennels, Atlantic, Mass.

HIS NIBS.]


ORIGIN.—The parents of this breed were Hooper’s Judge (a cross from an
English bulldog and an English terrier) and Burnett’s Gyp, “a white
bitch.” The American Kennel Club has now recognized this as a distinct
breed. The origin as given dates back to about 1870.

USES.—Purely a toy dog, of very affectionate disposition and equable
temper.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                        Value.
    Skull                   12½
    Ears                     5
    Eyes                     5
    Stop                     2½
    Muzzle                  12½
    Neck                     5
    Body                    15
    Elbows                   2½
    Fore legs                4
    Hind legs                4
    Feet                     2
    Tail                    10
    Color                    7
    Coat                     3
    General appearance      10
                           ---
                Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—The general appearance is that of a smooth,
short-coated, compactly built dog of moderately low stature. The head
should indicate a high degree of intelligence and be in proportion
to the dog’s size; body rather short and well knit; limbs strong and
finely turned; no feature being so prominent that the dog appears badly
proportioned; all conveying an impression of determination, strength, and
activity. Style of a high order, and carriage easy and graceful.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Skull large, broad, and flat, without prominent cheeks, and
forehead free from wrinkles. Stop well defined, but indenture not too
deep. Eyes wide apart, large and round, neither sunken nor too prominent;
color dark and soft. The outside corner should be on a line with cheeks
as viewed from the front. Ears small and thin, situated as near corners
of skull as possible; rose-ear preferable. Muzzle moderately short, wide,
and deep (without wrinkles). Nose black and wide, with a well-defined
straight line between nostrils. Jaws broad, square, and even, with short,
strong teeth; chops wide and deep, not pendulous, completely covering
teeth when mouth is closed.

NECK.—Rather short and thick (without loose skin), and quite well arched.

BODY.—Set moderately low, deep and quite broad at chest, well ribbed up;
back quite short, not roached; loins and quarters strong.

ELBOWS.—Set quite low, standing neither in nor out.

FORE LEGS.—Rather wide apart, straight, and well muscled.

[Illustration]

HIND LEGS.—Rather straight; quite long from stifle to hock (which should
turn neither in nor out); short and straight from hock to pastern. Thighs
well muscled. Hocks not too prominent.

FEET.—Small, nearly round, and turned a trifle outward; toes compact and
arched.

TAIL.—Moderate in length, set on low, with a moderate downward carriage,
fine and tapering, devoid of fringe or coarse hair.

COLOR.—Any color except black, mouse, or liver; brindle and white evenly
marked, and whole brindle, are colors most preferred.

COAT.—Fine in texture, short, bright, and not too hard.

WEIGHT.—Light-weight class, 15 to 25 pounds; heavy-weight class, 25 to 35
pounds.

DISQUALIFICATION.—Docked tail.




THE TERRIER (BULL).

[Illustration: F. F. Dole’s, New Haven, Conn.

GULLY THE GREAT.]


ORIGIN.—This is admittedly a cross between the bulldog and the English
terrier.

USES.—Formerly as a fighting dog. Present uses are for vermin, and as
a companion it has _no superior_, being kind, gentle, and exceedingly
honest and loyal.

[Illustration]

* THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE HEAD, BODY, ETC.

SCALE OF POINTS BY RAWDON B. LEE.

                                                          Value.
    Head, including skull, muzzle, lips, jaws, and teeth      25
    Eyes                                                      10
    Ears (badly cropped or otherwise)                          5
    Neck and shoulders                                        15
    Back                                                      10
    Legs and feet                                             15
    Coat                                                      10
    Stern                                                     10
                                                             ---
                                                  Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—The general appearance of the bull-terrier is that
of a symmetrical animal, an embodiment of agility, grace, elegance,
determination, and good nature.

HEAD.—Long, flat, and wide between ears, tapering to the nose, without
cheek muscles; slight indentation down face, without a stop. Jaws long
and very powerful; large black nose, and open nostrils. Eyes small and
very black. Lips should meet as tightly as possible, without a fold.
Teeth regular in shape, _and meet exactly_, any deviation being a great
fault. Ears always cropped for the show-bench, and should be done
scientifically and according to fashion.

NECK.—Long, slightly arched, nicely set into shoulders, tapering to head,
without any loose skin.

BODY.—Shoulders strong, muscular, slanting; chest wide and deep; ribs
well rounded.

BACK.—Short, muscular, but not out of proportion.

LEGS.—Fore legs perfectly straight, well-developed muscles; not “out at
shoulder,” but set on racing lines; very strong at pasterns. Hind legs
long, muscular, with good, strong, straight hocks, well let down.

[Illustration]

FEET.—Resembling those of the hare.

COLOR.—White.

COAT.—Short, close, stiff to the touch, with fine gloss.

TAIL.—From 10 to 12 inches long, set on very low; thick where it joins
the body, tapering to a fine point; carried at an angle of about 45
degrees, without curl, and never over the back.

WEIGHT.—About 30 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (CLYDESDALE OR PAISLEY).

[Illustration: CLYDESDALE LORIS.]


ORIGIN.—Both are often considered as one breed, and supposed to be of
Skye extraction.

USES.—A vermin-dog, but better as a pet.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                  Value.
    Head                              15
    Ears                              10
    Body                              15
    Coat                              20
    Color                             10
    Tail                              10
    Legs and feet                      5
    Style and general appearance      15
                                     ---
                          Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE AND STYLE.—The general appearance is that of a long,
low dog with plenty of style, having a rather large head in proportion to
its size, and with a coat that looks like silk or spun glass.

HEAD.—Skull slightly domed, very narrow between ears, gradually widening
toward eyes, and tapering very slightly to nose; covered with long, silky
hair, perfectly straight, without curl or waviness, and extending well
beyond nose, plentiful on sides of head, joined by that from the ears,
giving head a very large and rather heavy appearance. Muzzle very deep
and powerful, tapering very slightly to nose, which should be large and
well spread over the muzzle, always black. Jaws strong; teeth perfectly
level. Eyes rather wide apart, large, round, moderately full, but not
prominent; brown, and expressive of great intelligence.

EARS.—This is a most important point. They should be as small as
possible, set on high, carried perfectly erect, covered with long, silky
hair, which should hang in a beautiful fringe down side of head, joining
that on jaws. (Well-carried, finely fringed ears are one of the greatest
points of beauty.)

NECK.—Rather long, very muscular, well set into the shoulders, covered
with same class of hair as the body.

[Illustration]

BODY.—Very long, deep in chest, well ribbed up; back perfectly level.

COAT.—Very long, perfectly straight, free from curl or waviness; very
glossy and silky in texture (not linty), and without any pily under coat.

COLOR.—Dark blue to light fawn, the various shades of blue—dark blue for
preference, but without any approach to blackness or sootiness. Color
of head, beautiful silvery blue, which gets darker on ears; the back,
various shades of dark blue, inclining to silver on lower parts of body
and legs. Tail is generally the same shade or a little darker than the
back.

TAIL.—Perfectly straight, not too long, carried almost level with back;
nicely fringed or feathered.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs short and straight, well set under body, both legs
and feet well covered with silky hair. (In a good specimen the legs are
scarcely seen.)

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (DANDIE DINMONT).

[Illustration: William Wanton Dunnell’s.

KELSO COUNT.]


ORIGIN.—Mentioned in 1800 by Davidson as springing from Tarr, reddish and
wire-haired (a bitch), and Pepper (shaggy and light), which shows true
terrier blood.

USES.—An essentially vermin-dog, “dead game;” and when a fox, otter,
etc., is to be bolted it is unsurpassed. It is a curious fact that when
unearthing its game it generally does its fighting on its _back_, tearing
and scratching its opponent’s throat with tooth and nail.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                        Value.
    Head                    10
    Eyes                     5
    Ears                     5
    Neck                     5
    Body                    20
    Tail                     5
    Legs and feet           10
    Coat                    15
    Color                    5
    Size and weight         10
    General appearance      10
                           ---
                Total      100

HEAD.—Strongly made and large, with muscles well developed; skull broad
between ears, growing less toward eyes; forehead well domed. Head
covered with soft, silky hair, not confined to a mere topknot. Cheeks
have a gradual taper toward muzzle, which is deep and strong and about 3
inches in length. Muzzle covered with darker hair than topknot, the top
part being generally bare for about 1 inch from back of nose, where it
is about 1 inch broad. Nose and inside of mouth black or dark-colored.
Teeth strong and very large, level in front, the upper ones overlapping
the under ones. “Swine mouth” is objectionable, but not so much so as
the bulldog mouth. Eyes wide apart, full, large, round, bright, full of
determination, set low and prominent, and of a rich, dark hazel. Ears
large, pendulous, set well back, wide apart, and low on skull, hanging
close to cheek, tapering to a point, the tapering being mostly on the
back part. They are covered with soft, straight brown hair (sometimes
almost black), with a feather of light hair about 2 inches from tip. The
feather does not show, sometimes, till the dog is 2 years old. Leather
rather thin. Length of ear 3 to 4 inches.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Very muscular and strong, and well set into shoulders.

BODY.—Long, strong, and flexible; ribs well sprung; chest deep; back
rather low at shoulder; a slight, gradual droop from loins to root of
tail.

TAIL.—Rather short (8 to 10 inches), covered on upper side with wiry
hair, darker than on body; a feather of about 2 inches, getting shorter
as it nears the tip; simitar-like, not curled nor twisted and when
excited carried gaily above the level of the body.

LEGS AND FEET.—Fore legs short, immense muscular development and bones
set wide apart; feet well formed, _not_ flat. “Bandy legs” objectionable.
Hair on fore legs and feet of blue dog should be tan; on a mustard dog a
darker shade than on head, which is creamy white. Hind legs are rather
longer than front ones, rather wide apart, with feet smaller than front
ones, without feather and dew-claws; claws should be dark.

COAT.—Very important. Hair should be 2 inches long, and that from skull
to root of tail a mixture of hard and soft hair. The hard hair should be
wiry, the coat being pily, that under body being softer and lighter in
color than on top.

[Illustration]

COLOR.—Pepper or mustard. The pepper ranges from dark blue black to a
light silver gray; the mustards from a red brown to pale fawn, the head
being creamy white, with legs and feet darker than head. Claws are dark
as in other colors. Nearly all Dandies have some white on chest and white
claws.

SIZE.—Eight to eleven inches at shoulder. Limit weight, 24 pounds.

LENGTH.—From top of shoulder to root of tail should be twice the dog’s
height.




THE TERRIER (FOX, SMOOTH-COATED).

[Illustration: August Belmont’s.

CHAMPION BLEMTON VICTOR II.]


ORIGIN.—Evidently a very judicious cross between a beagle and a
bull-terrier.

USES.—Essentially a vermin-dog of the highest order, and capable of
worrying a fox when it has taken to earth. It is used by the operatives
in some parts of England for coursing rabbits.

[Illustration]

* THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE HEAD, BODY, ETC.

SCALE OF POINTS BY RAWDON B. LEE.

                                   Value.
    Head, jaws, and ears               20
    Neck                                5
    Shoulders and chest                10
    Back and loins                     10
    Stern and hind quarters            10
    Legs and feet                      15
    Coat                               10
    Size, symmetry, and character      20
                                      ---
                           Total      100

HEAD.—Skull flat, moderately narrow, gradually decreasing in width to
eyes. Not much stop, but there should be more dip in profile between
forehead and top jaw than in the greyhound. Cheeks must _not_ be full.
Ears V-shaped, small, of moderate thickness, drooping forward close to
cheek, not hanging by side of head. Jaws strong and muscular, of fair
punishing strength. There should not be much falling away below eyes.
This part of head should be moderately chiseled out, but not like a
wedge. Nose tapering and black. Eyes dark, small, rather deep set, full
of fire and intelligence; nearly circular in shape. Teeth nearly level.

[Illustration]

NECK.—Clean, muscular, without throatiness, of fair length, and gradually
widening to shoulders.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders long and sloping, well laid back, clearly
cut at withers; chest deep and not broad.

BACK.—Short, straight, and strong, with no appearance of slackness.

LOINS.—Powerful and very slightly arched. Fore ribs moderately arched;
back ribs deep. The dog should be well ribbed up.

HIND QUARTERS.—Strong, muscular, quite free from droop or crouch; thighs
long and powerful; hocks near the ground.

[Illustration]

STERN.—Set on rather high, carried gaily, but _not_ over back or curled;
of good strength, anything approaching a “pipe-stopper” tail being
especially objectionable.

LEGS.—Straight, showing little or no appearance of ankle in front; strong
in bone, short and straight in pastern. Both fore and hind legs carried
straight forward in traveling; stifles not turning outward; elbows
perpendicular to the body.

FEET.—Round, compact, not large; soles hard and tough; toes moderately
arched, and turned neither in nor out.

COAT.—Smooth, flat, hard, dense, and abundant. Belly and under side of
thighs should not be bare.

COLOR.—White should predominate; brindle, red, or liver markings are
_objectionable_.

[Illustration]

SYMMETRY, SIZE, AND CHARACTER.—The dog must present a generally gay,
lively, and active appearance. Bone and strength in a small compass,
but this does not mean that a fox-terrier should be cloggy or in any
way coarse. Speed and endurance must be looked to as well as power, and
the symmetry of the foxhound taken as a model. The terrier must on no
account be leggy, nor must it be too short in leg. It should stand like a
cleverly made hunter, covering a lot of ground, yet with a short back.

WEIGHT is not a certain criterion of a terrier’s fitness for its work;
general shape, size, and contour are the main points; it should not scale
over 20 pounds in show condition.




THE TERRIER (FOX, WIRE-HAIRED).

[Illustration: G. M. Carnochan’s, 46 Exchange Place, New York.

THORNFIELD KNOCKOUT.]


[Illustration]

With the exception of the coat, which should be broken, the origin, uses,
and scale of points of this breed are identical with the smooth-coated
variety.

The harder and more wiry the texture of the coat is, the better. The dog
should not look nor feel woolly, and there should be no silky hair. The
coat should not be too long, but it should show a marked difference from
the smooth species.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (IRISH).

[Illustration: W. J. Comstock’s, Providence, R. I.

DUNMURRY.]


ORIGIN.—Mr. George R. Krehl, editor of the London (England) “Stockkeeper”
and English vice-president of the Irish Terrier Club, says this is a true
and distinct breed, indigenous to Ireland, and that no man can trace its
origin, which is lost in antiquity.

USES.—Rabbiting, and as a vermin-dog.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                 Value.
    Head, jaws, teeth, and eyes      15
    Ears                              5
    Legs and feet                    10
    Neck                              5
    Shoulders and chest              10
    Back and loins                   10
    Hind quarters and stern          10
    Coat                             15
    Color                            10
    Size and symmetry                10
                                    ---
                         Total      100

_Negative Points._

    White nails, toes, and feet      10
    Much white on chest              10
    Ears cropped                      5
    Mouth undershot                  10
    Coat shaggy or curly             10
    Uneven in color                   5
                                    ---
                         Total       50

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Long; skull flat, rather narrow between ears, free from wrinkle;
stop hardly visible. Jaws strong, muscular, but not too full in cheek,
and of good punishing length. There should be a slight falling away
below the eye, so as not to have a greyhound appearance. Hair on face
same description as on body: short (about ¼ inch long), almost smooth
and straight; a slight beard is permissible, and that is characteristic.
Teeth strong and level. Lips not so tight as a bull-terrier’s, but well
fitting. Nose black. Eyes dark hazel, small, not prominent, full of life,
fire, and intelligence. Ears, when uncut, small and V-shaped, of moderate
thickness, set well up, dropping forward close to cheek, free from
fringe, and hair thereon shorter and generally darker in color than the
body.

NECK.—Fair length, gradually widening toward shoulders, free from
throatiness, with a slight sort of frill at each side of neck, running
nearly to corner of ear, which is characteristic.

SHOULDERS AND CHEST.—Shoulders _must_ be fine, long, sloping; chest deep,
muscular, but neither full nor wide.

BACK AND LOINS.—Body moderately long; back strong, straight, with no
appearance of slackness; loins broad, powerful, slightly arched; ribs
fairly sprung, rather deep than round.

HIND QUARTERS.—Well under the dog, strong, muscular; thighs powerful;
hocks near the ground; stifles not much bent.

STERN.—Generally docked, free from fringe or feather; set on pretty high;
carried gaily, but not over back, nor curled.

FEET AND LEGS.—Feet strong, tolerably round, moderately small; toes
arched, neither turned out nor in; black toe-nails. Legs moderately long,
well set on, perfectly straight, plenty of bone and muscle; pasterns
short and straight; fore and hind legs moving straight forward when
traveling; stifles not turned outward; legs free of feather, and covered
with hair as on head.

COAT.—Hard, wiry, not soft nor silky, not so long as to hide outlines of
body; straight, flat, no shagginess, no lock nor curl.

COLOR.—“Whole-colored,” the most preferable being bright red, wheaten,
yellow, and gray; _brindle disqualifying_. White sometimes appears on
chest and feet; more objectionable on the latter.

SYMMETRY.—The dog must present an active, lively, lithe, and wiry
appearance; lots of substance, free of clumsiness, and framed on the
“lines of speed.”

[Illustration]

TEMPERAMENT.—The Irish terrier, as a breed, is remarkably good-tempered,
notably so with mankind, it being admitted, however, that it is perhaps
a little too ready to resent interference on part of other dogs, hence
called “daredevils.”

WEIGHT.—Sixteen to twenty-four pounds.

DISQUALIFICATIONS.—Nose cherry or red; brindle color.




THE TERRIER (MALTESE).

[Illustration: Mrs. J. P. Wade’s, Corona, L. I.

FLOSSIE.]


ORIGIN.—Indigenous to the island of Malta, and spoken of by Aristotle,
B.C. 370, as the lap-dog of the fashionable Greeks and Romans.

[Illustration]

USES.—A pet dog essentially.

SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                   Value.
    Size               15
    Coat               15
    Color              15
    Color of eyes      10
    Color of nose      10
    Tail               10
    Ears                5
    Legs and body      10
    Symmetry           10
                      ---
           Total      100

As no standard is adopted, the following is the description of the dog.

WEIGHT.—Five pounds; limit, seven pounds.

COLOR.—All white, with long, silky hair, looking like spun glass,
straight, _not_ curly, length _not_ less than 7 inches.

[Illustration]

HEAD AND BODY.—Nose and eyes black. Tail turned or doubled into coat
on back. Ears small, drooping, well clad with hair. Mouth level; teeth
white. Black-coated specimens are _very_ rare and desirable.

DEFECT.—Ears with fawn markings.




THE TERRIER (SCOTTISH).

[Illustration: Newcastle Kennels, Brookline, Mass.

BELLINGHAM BAILIFF. BONNY C.]


ORIGIN.—Nothing definite of this breed can be traced, though it was for
years known in Scotland as the Skye terrier.

[Illustration]

USES.—Unearthing vermin, badgers, foxes, etc.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                        Value.
    Skull                    7½
    Muzzle                   7½
    Eyes                     5
    Ears                     5
    Neck                     5
    Chest                    5
    Body                    15
    Legs and feet           10
    Tail                     2½
    Coat                    15
    Size                    10
    Color                    2½
    General appearance      10
                           ---
                Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—The face should bear a very sharp, bright, and
active expression, and head carried up. The dog should look compact and
be possessed of great muscle in his hind quarters. A Scottish terrier
_cannot be too powerfully_ put together.

HEAD.—Skull long, slightly domed, covered with short, hard hair about ¾
inch long or less; skull not quite flat. Muzzle very powerful, tapering
toward nose, which should be black and of good size; jaws level; teeth
square, though the nose projects somewhat over the mouth. Eyes wide
apart, dark brown or hazel, small and piercing. Ears very small, prick or
half prick, sharp-pointed, the hair not long, and free from any fringe on
top.

NECK.—Short, thick, muscular; strongly set on sloping shoulders.

CHEST.—Broad and proportionately deep.

[Illustration]

BODY.—Moderate length, rather flat-sided, well ribbed up, and exceedingly
strong in hind quarters.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs short, and very heavy in bone, the front ones being
straight or slightly bent, and well set on under body; hocks bent; thighs
very muscular; feet strong, small, and thickly covered with short hair.

TAIL.—About 7 inches long, carried with a slight bend, and _never_ cut.

COAT.—Rather short (about 2 inches), intensely hard, wiry, and very dense.

SIZE.—About 16 pounds for a dog; 14 pounds for a bitch.

COLORS.—Steel or iron gray, brindle, black, red, wheaten, yellow, or
mustard color. _White markings are most objectionable._

HEIGHT.—Nine to twelve inches.

FAULTS.—Large or light eyes; silky or curly coat.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (SKYE).

[Illustration: (From _Ladies’ Kennel Journal_.)

LAIRD DUNCAN.]


ORIGIN.—Entirely lost. Indigenous, no doubt, to Scotland.

USES.—A good, gamy vermin-dog, hardy and tough.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

              Value.
    Size          15
    Head          15
    Ears          10
    Body          15
    Tail          10
    Legs          10
    Coat          20
    Color          5
                 ---
      Total      100

HEAD.—Long; powerful jaws, incisors closing level, or upper jaws just
fitting under. Skull wide at front of brow, narrowing between ears,
tapering to muzzle, with little falling in between or behind eyes. Eyes
hazel, medium size, close set. Muzzle black. Ears, when pricked, not
large; erect at outer edges, slanting toward each other inward. When
pendent, larger, hanging straight, and flat and close at front.

BODY.—Preëminently long and low; shoulders broad; chest deep; ribs well
sprung, oval-shaped, giving flat appearance to sides. Hind quarters
full and well developed. Back level, and declining from top of hip to
shoulders. Neck long and well crested.

TAIL.—When hanging, upper half perpendicular, under half thrown backward
in a curve. When raised, a prolongation of outline of back, not rising
higher nor curling up.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs short, straight, muscular, no dew-claws. Feet large,
pointing forward.

[Illustration]

COAT (DOUBLE).—Under coat short, close, soft, and woolly; and over coat
long (5½ inches), hard, straight, flat, free from crisp or curl. Hair on
head shorter, softer, veiling forehead and eyes; on ears, overhanging
inside, falling down, not heavily, but surrounding ear like fringe; tail
also feathered.

COLOR.—Dark or light blue, or gray or fawn with black points.

HEIGHT AND LENGTH.—Height at shoulder 9 inches; length, occiput to root
of tail, 22½ inches.

WEIGHT.—Dogs, 18 pounds; bitches, 16 pounds.

DISQUALIFICATIONS.—Doctored ears or tail; weight over 20 pounds; over- or
under-shot jaws.

[Illustration]




TERRIERS (TOY).


Toy terriers are judged by the same points as the large specimens of the
same breed.




THE TERRIER (WELSH).

[Illustration: John Brett’s, Closter, N. J.

TORY II.]


ORIGIN.—Claimed by some to be of Welsh origin, by others of English
origin. However that may be, the breed was only recognized by the English
Kennel Club in 1886, and catalogued under title of “Welsh or English
wire-haired black-and-tan terriers.”

USES.—Essentially a vermin-dog, “dead game.”

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                             Value.
    Head                         20
    Neck and shoulders           10
    Body                         10
    Loins and hind quarters      10
    Legs and feet                15
    Coat                         15
    Color                        10
    Symmetry                     10
                                ---
                     Total      100

HEAD.—Skull flat, rather wider between ears than the wire-haired
fox-terrier. Jaws powerful, clean cut, rather deeper and more
punishing—giving head a more masculine appearance than that usually seen
on a fox-terrier. Stop not too defined; fair length from stop to end of
nose. Nose black. Ears V-shaped, small, not too thin, set on fairly high,
carried forward and close to cheek. Eyes small, not too deeply set in nor
protruding, dark hazel, expressive, and indicating abundant pluck.

NECK.—Moderate length and thickness, slightly arched and sloping.

[Illustration]

BODY.—Back short, well ribbed up; loins strong; good depth and moderate
width of chest; shoulders long, sloping, well set back; hind quarters
strong; thighs muscular; hocks moderately straight, and well let down.
Stern set on moderately high, and not too gaily carried.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs straight, muscular, good bone, strong pasterns. Feet
cat-like.

COAT.—Wiry, hard, very close, and abundant.

COLOR.—Black or grizzle and tan, free from pencilings on toes.

SIZE AND WEIGHT.—Fifteen inches in dogs; average weight, 20 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (WHITE ENGLISH).

[Illustration: L. A. Van Zandt’s, New City, N. Y.

TOMMY ATKINS II.]


ORIGIN.—Wholly unknown, but the greatest number come from Manchester
(England).

USES.—A very companionable gamy dog.

[Illustration]

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                           Value.
    Head                       20
    Eyes and expression        15
    Neck and shoulders         10
    Legs, feet, and chest      15
    Coat                       10
    Stern                      10
    Symmetry                   10
    Size                       10
                              ---
                   Total      100

HEAD.—Narrow, long, level, almost flat; skull wedge-shaped, well filled
below eyes, not lippy. Eyes small, black, oblong, and set fairly close.
Nose black. Ears cropped and standing perfectly erect.

NECK AND SHOULDERS.—Neck fairly long, tapering; shoulders sloping, no
throatiness, slightly arched at occiput.

BODY.—Chest narrow, deep; body short, curving upward at loins; ribs well
sprung.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs perfectly straight, well under body, moderate bone;
feet cat-like.

[Illustration]

TAIL.—Moderate length, and set on where arch of back ends; thick where it
joins body, tapering, and _not_ carried higher than the back.

COAT.—Close, hard, short, glossy.

COLOR.—Pure white; colored markings disqualify.

WEIGHT.—Limit, 20 pounds; 14 pounds preferable.

[Illustration]




THE TERRIER (YORKSHIRE).

[Illustration: Mrs. F. Senn’s, 278 West Eleventh Street, New York.

DUKE OF GAINSBORO.]


ORIGIN.—This dog’s home is Manchester (England), where it is said to have
been originated, the black-and-tan, Skye, and Maltese terriers all being
credited with its paternity. Except in color, it resembles greatest the
latter dog.

[Illustration]

USES.—Essentially a toy dog, beautiful and aristocratic.

* SCALE OF POINTS, ETC.

                                        Value.
    Quantity and color of hair on body      25
    Quality of coat                         15
    Tan                                     15
    Head                                    10
    Eyes                                     5
    Mouth                                    5
    Ears                                     5
    Legs and feet                            5
    General appearance                      10
    Tail                                     5
                                           ---
                                Total      100

GENERAL APPEARANCE.—A long-coated, well-proportioned pet dog; coat
straight and hanging evenly down each side, parted from nose to end of
tail; very compact in form, neat, sprightly, and bearing an important air.

[Illustration]

HEAD.—Rather small, flat, not too round in skull, broad at muzzle; black
nose. Hair on muzzle very long, of bright golden tan, unmixed with
dark or sooty hair. Hair on sides of head very long, and of deeper tan
than on center of head. Eyes medium in size, not prominent, dark, with
intelligent expression; edges of eyelids dark. Ears cut or uncut, quite
erect; if not cut, V-shaped, small, and erect, covered with short hair;
color deep tan. Mouth _even_; teeth sound; a loose tooth or two not
objectionable.

BODY.—Very compact, good loins, and level on top of back.

COAT.—Hair as long and straight as possible, _not_ wavy; glossy, like
silk, _not_ woolly; extending from back of head to root of tail. Color
bright steel blue, not intermingled with fawn, light or dark hairs.

LEGS AND FEET.—Legs quite straight; hair on same a bright golden tan, a
shade lighter at ends than at roots. Feet round as possible; toe-nails
black.

WEIGHT.—Divided, viz., under 5 pounds, over 5 pounds; limit, 12 pounds.

[Illustration]




THE WHIPPET.

[Illustration: W. J. Comstock’s, Providence, R. I.

MARY.]


ORIGIN.—On account of it being little else than a small English
greyhound, its origin is traced to that breed, by which standard it is
judged.

USES.—Occasionally for coursing rabbits, but chiefly for trials of
speed of about 200 yards. The dogs are run in couples, the waving of a
handkerchief or other cloth being the incentive to run.

HEIGHT.—At shoulders about 18 inches.

[Illustration]




TREATMENT OF THE DOG IN HEALTH.


FIRST PRINCIPLES.

Teach your dog to obey you through kindness if possible, _but teach it_.
Remember always that it has as much feeling as the average human being,
and wonders can be worked through kindness. Rather than strike it with
a whip, strike _at_ it, the swish of the whip generally having about as
much effect as a well-delivered “strike.”

The next duty is to teach the dog to be clean about the house. Should it
forget itself, make its nose well acquainted with the “offense,” rubbing
it as hard as you please, “warm its jacket” well, and then turn it out of
doors with a well-delivered slap on the body. A repetition of the “moral
suasion” act is rarely necessary. In the morning let it out of the house
into the yard the first thing you do, and repeat it the last thing before
retiring; it will soon learn to understand the meaning of all this and
cease to cause trouble. Patience—and sometimes a great deal of it, too—is
required to make the dog “well mannered,” but perseverance will achieve
the desired result. NEVER strike a dog on the head; the body presents
sufficient surface.


BREAKING TO CHAIN.

Some dogs take kindly to instruction in this regard, others rebel against
it. Put a collar on the dog several days before you intend breaking it to
chain. Try conscientiously the coaxing process _first_; if it fails, then
nothing remains but to drag the dog along till from fear of choking it is
forced to follow. Once having undertaken it, _don’t stop till you have
accomplished your object_. This treatment should not in stubborn cases
last over half an hour, though sometimes heavy and headstrong dogs may
require two hours. In the majority of cases after half an hour’s teaching
the dog will lead “steady by jerks,” and in a couple of days will become
used to the chain. If, however, after a week’s experience it tugs and
pulls on the lead, use a slip-noose collar, which tightens as the strain
grows greater. Choking off its wind when it pulls hard, it will soon grow
weary and act rationally. Should this treatment still prove inefficient,
some people resort to the spike collar, which, however, should be used
only _with the greatest judgment_. _No_ one ever treated his dogs more
kindly than I, yet, though I never had a dog upon which it became
necessary to use a spike collar, still, perhaps I _would_ have used one
rather than have my shoulder pulled out of its socket by a dog which I
took out for companionship. I would use it only as a _last resort_, and
then with the utmost caution.


FEEDING.

The dog in its wild state is nearly, if not wholly, carnivorous, but when
domesticated becomes omnivorous and therefore thrives best on a mixed
diet of bread, meat, and vegetables. Excepting when training or hunting
your dogs, a purely meat diet is not desirable any more than it would
be for a human being. While its stomach has the power to digest bones,
gristle, etc., through the excessive secretions of gastric juices, still
it is very easily deranged, and when so affected it may take days for it
to resume its normal state; hence expel the thought that any kind of food
is “good enough for a dog.”

Avoid giving very much corn-meal, as it is too heating and is not
possessed of much strength-giving qualities. Let the diet, whether it is
for a St. Bernard or a fox-terrier, be a mixture of meat (boiled tripe
and mutton are excellent) cooked till it is in shreds, oatmeal, barley,
rice, carrots, bread, potatoes, cabbage, or any other vegetable added so
as to make the whole thick, and rendered palatable by a goodly supply
of salt. Avoid giving chop, steak, or fowl bones, as they are apt to
splinter, and, lodging in the intestines, very frequently cause death.
Give plentifully of large, soft bones (such as knuckles), which are
easily chewed, as they act as a sort of tooth-brush, and aid digestion
greatly. Scraps of all sorts from the table tend _best_ to preserve the
dog’s health.

For toy dogs well-cooked rice, finely chopped boiled tripe, _warm_ milk,
and _lean_ meat scraps from the table, mixed with vegetables, should form
the common diet. As these dogs are very light eaters, they may be fed
three times a day, care being exercised that they do not overload their
stomachs at any time.

Sweets of all kinds are objectionable. Unlike the human stomach, the
dog’s needs much rest; so in the morning feed “just a crumb” and at night
let it eat all it desires. A little flour of sulphur or powdered magnesia
(a quarter-teaspoonful) now and again will do no harm. Constant and free
access to _fresh, clean_ water _must_ not be neglected. As soon as the
dog has eaten all it desires, take the uneaten food away, and do not let
it remain to be nibbled at during the day or night.

Boiled liver is an admirable alterative, and one good meal of it should
be fed _at least once a week_. If you find your dog has no appetite,
don’t try to coax or force it, but cease to offer it any food whatever
for at least twenty-four hours. A fast of forty-eight hours _will do it
no harm_ in such cases, and total abstinence often wards off sickness.
Should it be disposed to eat grass or horse-droppings, don’t try to
prevent it, as both are nature’s mild remedy for a disordered stomach. In
short, feed your dog as you would a human being, and the result will be
satisfactory. The feeding of meat does not in any way affect the scenting
powers of a dog, nor does it produce worms, distemper, or kindred
diseases, as so often stated. Having used the foregoing diet both at
home, with my favorite dog, and at my kennels, where I have had as many
as ninety at one time, my experience with it for twenty years convinces
me that it cannot be improved upon, whether used for a single dog or an
entire pack.

Puppies from time of weaning up to six months of age should be fed _four_
times daily, from six to nine months three times, and after that age feed
same as grown dogs; they too thrive best on diet as already described.
Fresh raw minced meat is good, especially for puppies; it strengthens
them and tones the stomach. Give freely of fresh milk and buttermilk,
especially the latter, as it keeps the stomach sweet.

When puppies are about three weeks old they should be taught to lap
scalded milk (sweetened a little) by gently putting their noses into
it. They will instinctively lick it off, and after a few lessons will
soon lap eagerly. This is always a great relief to a nursing mother,
especially where the pups are vigorous or the litter large. A little
bread or rice added when they are about four weeks old will do them a
vast deal of good. Remember always, if you want strong, healthy dogs,
that as puppies they should be fed nutritious food.

Bitches in whelp and while nursing pups should be fed on a soft or mushy
diet, such as soups, porridge, etc., as it produces more and better milk,
and often prevents fevers.

If you accompany your dogs to a show, and they are not accustomed to
the usual food given there, it is always best to give them scraps from
a neighboring restaurant, as some dog-biscuits cause excessive purging.
There, too, they frequently become very nervous, lose their appetites,
and often take cold, resulting in fevers; so it is not a bad scheme
during a show to give your setters, for instance, one grain powdered
quinine twice a day (smaller or larger dogs in proportion) during the
entire show and for some days after it is over. It has been tried with
most beneficial results.


VALUE OF EXERCISE.

All dogs, whether large or small, should have exercise, and plenty of
it, in order to aid digestion, keep the heart and lungs in good action,
and thereby insure a good appetite. Puppies, as is natural to them, take
plenty of exercise; but it is when they are grown up that care should be
taken that they do not become sluggish and so pave the way to obesity,
which tends to affect the coat, digestion, and general appearance. The
small varieties will generally of themselves keep “on the go,” but
mastiffs, setters, and such other large dogs are not always disposed to
move about much of their own free will; hence make them the companions of
your walks. It is twofold in its good results: it makes you understand
each other better, and does the dog no end of good. Bitches in whelp
should have plenty of gentle exercise.


WASHING AND GROOMING.

Do not wash your dogs too often, as it removes the natural oil and
consequently the gloss, which is so much desired. Careful and _daily_
brushing with a dandy-brush, followed by a rubbing down with mittens made
of chamois leather, will keep a dog’s coat in wonderfully fine condition
and _for a long while_. The hound gloves are found to be of great value
with smooth-coated dogs, such as Great Danes, pointers, bull-terriers,
etc. In the long-haired classes use a brush with one-and-a-half-inch
bristles, and a comb with teeth very short and wide apart, not unlike
a barber’s comb. When washing, best results are attained with _pure_
Castile soap, and after rinsing off the dog then using the _imported_
German green soft soap. The latter seems to restore the gloss, is better
than using eggs, and does not leave the hair so dry. _Don’t_ wash your
dog within two hours after feeding, and when you do it, _do it as quickly
as possible_, using _lukewarm_ water. Exercise the dog freely _after_ it
has been well dried. Towels made of salt-sacks are the best for drying
purposes.

Great care should be taken in washing Yorkshires and toy spaniels, as,
their coats being soft, they hold the dampness even after they appear
to be thoroughly dry. The best and safest mode is as follows: Place the
dog in a little foot-tub of lukewarm water deep enough to reach to its
elbows, and cover the body with soap-_suds_, _never_ putting the soap on
the coat. With a soft hair-brush of long bristles brush the hair with
the suds, always brushing from the center _downward_, thus reaching all
parts of the body, _including the head_. When the dog is cleaned gently
force all the suds and water out by smoothing the hair as instructed in
brushing, then lift it into another tub of clean lukewarm water and with
a soft sponge rinse well. Stand the dog on a table, envelop the body in a
soft towel or cloth, and gently press the hands over it until the water
and moisture are all absorbed by the cloth. _Never_ ruffle or rub the
hair; simply smooth it.

Now with a comb of short and widely separated teeth comb out the hair,
and with about three brushes, always kept dry by being laid before the
fire, brush the hair till it is perfectly dry. Then lay the dog before
the fire, where it will be _very_ warm, thus insuring it from catching
cold. Such prominent breeders as Senn, Burkhardt, _et al._, dry their
dogs in an oven made especially for the purpose.

After the dog is thoroughly dried, brush it, let it run about the house
for an hour or so, and then let it rest on a _linen_-covered cushion,
which is far better than velvet or plush, as the coat does not adhere to
it. A very little fine oil in the palm of the hand rubbed over the coat
will generally restore the gloss after washing.


FLEAS.

The bane of a dog’s existence is fleas. They are especially troublesome
to puppies, worrying them till they become fretful, causing them to
irritate the skin and tear their coats through scratching, seeking relief
from itching. In addition, where fleas are particularly numerous on a
dog they will often so affect it that its appetite is impaired and its
digestive organs affected by worriment.

Carbolic soaps will kill these pests, also destroy the hair if constantly
used; therefore the greatest permanent relief is found in using a powder.
The best results can be attained by taking the dog into the yard or
street, dusting it thoroughly with P. D. Q. Compound Powder, rubbing it
well into the skin, when both fleas and nits will cease to exist. It is
not injurious either to the dog or its hair, and if used on furniture or
carpets will prove equally efficacious.


KENNELING.

If you desire to kennel your dog out of doors, _remember always_ that it
can stand almost any amount of cold, _provided_ its kennel is _clean_
and _dry_ and elevated about six inches above the ground. The elevation
allows a free circulation of air and prevents the bottom of the kennel
from getting damp and remaining so. The boards should be tongued and
grooved so as to shut out all drafts. Provided always with clean, dry
straw, the dog will thrive. Foul and damp bedding produces mange,
rickets, distemper, rheumatism, etc. If possible avoid keeping the dog
on chain, as it frets and irritates it and is very apt to sour its
disposition.


PREPARING A DOG FOR EXHIBITION.

To show a dog “for all there is in him,” its coat should be in perfect
condition, free from all dead hair, and in the form as called for in the
standard pertaining to its special breed. The body should be round, the
ribs well covered; and in sporting and large specimens the muscles should
be well developed and hard. Where two exhibits about equal in points of
conformation come together in the judging ring, the one shown in the best
“condition” will receive the blue ribbon. Grooming in the smaller breeds
is generally “nine points” toward conditioning.




TREATMENT OF THE DOG IN SICKNESS.


In sickness the patient should _always_ receive the very kindest
treatment and be spoken to very gently. Rough or harsh handling is
peculiarly hurtful where affections are of a nervous character.

When exhaustion is very great, and the patient absolutely refuses to eat,
soft, nutritious food should be forced down the throat by first placing
it in the mouth, then closing the jaws gently yet firmly, and softly
rubbing the windpipe with the hand, thus causing the patient to swallow.
Strange to relate, almost any sick dog will eagerly eat meat which has
been masticated by its attendant. Warmth and perfect quiet are great
factors of a complete and early recovery.

When convalescent the patient should have soft, nourishing food (beef-tea
and rice, etc.), and whenever meat is given it should be hashed or cut as
fine as possible.

A little port-wine can _always_ be given in this description of food with
beneficial results. Food should be administered in small quantities and
at short intervals.


BRUISES, SPRAINS, ETC.

    Spirits of turpentine
       ”       hartshorn
    Laudanum
    Rape-oil

    Mix equal parts of above, forming a liniment, and anoint parts
    affected. Where an abrasion exists, touch it with friars’
    balsam, and rub liniment _around_ the broken skin, _not on_ it.


BURNS.

Use equal parts of linseed-oil and lime-water, applying it freely and as
soon after the accident as possible.


CANKER OF THE EAR.

Internal canker is an inflammation of the lining membrane of the passage
to the ear, accompanied sometimes with suppuration, and when of long
standing has a most offensive-smelling discharge. A mangy affection of
the ear is often confounded with, or supposed to be, an external canker.

SYMPTOMS.—The ear is very red, inflamed, and heated. The dog continually
scratches it, shaking the head as if to remove something from it.
After syringing the ear well with warm water and Castile soap, use the
following remedy twice daily, holding the dog’s head sidewise on the lap
and gently pouring a little into the ear.

    Goulard’s extract of lead       ½ oz.
    Glycerin and carbolic acid      ⅛  ”
    Olive-oil                      2¼  ”

    Shake the bottle well before using. Relief should follow almost
    immediately.


COLDS.

SYMPTOMS.—Chilliness, shivering, languor, dry, hot nose, accompanied by a
thin discharge from the nose.

If the patient is not attended to _at once_ the complaint may lead to
distemper and fevers.

Use Fever Mixture, and keep patient warm.


COLIC AND INFLAMMATION OF THE BOWELS.

To discover the difference between colic and inflammation of the bowels,
press the hand along the belly, and if the movement gives relief, the
probable trouble is colic. If pain attends the pressure, it is probably
inflammation. In these two cases, my advice is to consult a veterinarian
_at once_. The symptoms of both affections are evidenced by the dog
standing with arched back and feet drawn toward one another, or crouching
with belly on the ground. Inflammation is generally of slower development
than colic.

When a dog is affected with colic it is often shown when it is apparently
in the best of health and eating well; it is seized with spasms, causing
it to moan and howl. The causes are about identical with inflammation of
the bowels.

As soon as convinced that colic is the cause of the trouble, give _at
once_, to a dog of, say, 25 pounds, _not_ quite a teaspoonful of the
following in three tablespoonfuls of milk or gruel: compound spirits
of sulphuric ether (Hoffman’s anodyne) and tincture of opium, _equal
parts_. If relief does not immediately ensue, repeat the dose in half an
hour.

After permanent relief, give Purgative Mixture, once a day for three
days. (See Inflammation of the Bowels.)


COUGHS.

Cough is a symptom of disease rather than a disease in itself, and arises
from different causes, differing in character as do the diseases which
it precedes, viz.: in the common cold the cough is slight and humid; in
bronchitis, hard, dry, and frequent; in inflammation of the lungs and
pleurisy, short and suppressed, accompanied with great pain; in asthma,
hard and wheezy, followed by vomiting; in distemper, husky and hollow.

For the common cold or cough use either Cough Remedy No. 1 or No. 2. The
first is especially good for affections of the respiratory organs.


COUGH REMEDY NO. 1.

    Powdered ipecacuanha         6 grains
       ”     opium               6   ”
    Compound squill pill        24   ”
    Powdered gum ammoniacum     24   ”
       ”     licorice           24   ”
       ”     rhubarb            12   ”

    Make into 24 pills. Dose for 25-pound dog, one pill night and
    morning.


COUGH REMEDY NO. 2.

    Elixir paregoric       ½ oz.
    Syrup of squills      1½  ”

    Give 1 teaspoonful for dog of 25 pounds every six hours.


CUTS, WOUNDS, ETC.

As soon as the cut stops bleeding, which is accomplished either by
holding the parts together with the fingers or by use of a lint bandage,
wash the wound thoroughly with warm water so as to remove all foreign
substances. Then apply with a soft brush a dressing of friars’ balsam,
which will form a sort of crust over the wound, keeping out dust, dirt,
etc., and allowing the wound to heal quickly.

The sewing up of a wound is a very easy affair. Pass the needle through
the skin on one side of the wound from the _outside_ inward, and through
the corresponding part on the opposite side from the _inside_ outward.
Draw the lips of the wound together gently, and tying the silk thread in
a strong knot, cut off ends close, so that the dog cannot bite them. Each
stitch must be tied _separately_, and should be about half an inch apart.
If possible the dog should be muzzled, not only during the operation, but
for several days afterward. The wound should be constantly washed with
the following:

    Carbolic acid         ½ oz.
    Glycerin             2   ”
    Water               32   ”

In bandaging a wound, saturate the cloth with a mixture of equal parts of
camphorated oil and friars’ balsam.


DIARRHEA MIXTURE.

    Powdered chalk                     3 drams
    Aromatic confection (powder)       2   ”
    Powdered gum acacia                1 dram
    Tinct. opium                       1 oz.
    Oil cassia                         8 drops
    Tinct. catechu                     3 drams
    Sp. sal volatile                   2   ”
    Water sufficient to make 8 oz.

    Dose for a young puppy of the _small_ breeds, ½ teaspoonful;
    1 teaspoonful for puppies of the _large_ breeds, and 1 to 2
    tablespoonfuls for grown dogs, according to size of the breed.
    Repeat every three or four hours till relief is obtained or
    till purging ceases.


DISTEMPER.

There are three kinds of distemper, viz., of the head, of the lungs, and
of the bowels. Good nursing is nine points out of ten for conquering this
fell disease.

SYMPTOMS.—Mucous discharge from eyes or nose, or both, dry, hacking
cough, general lassitude, diarrhea of very offensive odor.

_Do not try to treat the patient_, for, unless you are an M.D. or have
had a long experience with the disease, you will probably make a sorry
mess of it. Until a veterinarian arrives, keep the patient quiet, warm,
out of all draft, feeding only beef-tea with brandy added. Do not give
solid food under any circumstances. Bear always in mind that this disease
is most contagious, and, to prevent it from spreading, the patient should
be quarantined from all other dogs, the farther off the better.

Dr. T. G. Sherwood, a member of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgery,
127 West Thirty-seventh Street, New York, inoculated four of the
author’s dogs, and the result was satisfactory beyond all expectation, as
other dogs not so treated quickly succumbed to the disease.

As distemper is about equivalent to pneumonia or inflammation of the
lungs in human beings, the reader will readily understand how useless it
would be for a layman to try to treat these diseases.


FEVER MIXTURE.

    Powdered nitre           1  dram
    Sweet sp. nitre           ½ oz.
    Mindererus spirits       1½  ”
    Wine antimony            1  dram
    Water (distilled)        4  oz.

    Dose for 25-pound dog, 1 tablespoonful every four hours in a
    little gruel.


INFLAMMATION OF THE BOWELS.

The main causes of this affection are irregular, improper, or stale diet,
irritation caused by some hard, indigestible substance in the stomach,
exposure to cold or wet, and a blow, such as a kick.

SYMPTOMS.—Feverishness, nose hot and dry, shivering, distended belly,
and scanty or highly colored urine. As this sickness needs scientific
treatment, call in a veterinarian _at once_. If, however, you desire
to try to relieve the dog awaiting his advent, proceed at once to give
injections of thin oatmeal gruel or soap and lukewarm water, each
containing about one ounce of castor-oil. Continue these injections every
fifteen minutes till relief is given. The utmost gentleness must be used
in this procedure, the patient being coaxed to rest on its side while the
injections are being administered.

In order to prevent a recurrence of the trouble, give the Mild Purgative
No. 1, and after the danger is past, then Tonic Pills No. 1. (See Colic.)


INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER.

Use Fever Mixture, preceded by Mild Purgative No. 1.


LOTION FOR EYES.

    Extract belladonna     ½ dram
    Rose-water            4  oz.
    Wine opium            2  drams

    ℞ and use as a lotion.

In affections of long standing use:

    Sulphite of zinc        12 grains
    Tinct. belladonna        1 dram
    Wine opium               2 drams
    Rose-water               4 oz.

    ℞ and use as a lotion.


LOTION FOR SORE FEET.

    Tinct. arnica        ½ oz.
      ”    matico        ½  ”
      ”    opium        1   ”
    Acetic acid          ½  ”

    Mix with 1 quart distilled water and apply freely.

Where inflammation is very great and the feet are swollen, first apply a
poultice of bran and boiled turnips, equal parts.


MANGE.

Mange as applied to animals is the same as itch in human beings, being
beyond question caused by a parasite burrowing into the skin, resulting
in the falling out of the hair, and sometimes in an exudation of an
offensive-smelling pus, itching to such a degree that the patient
scratches continuously.

There are two varieties of mange, viz., sarcoptic and follicular, both
of which are contagious to animals, though very rarely to human beings.
The first variety shows itself in little red spots, which exude a sort
of pus, and these will spread over the entire body unless checked.
Follicular mange is less irritating than the sarcoptic, but gives off
a very offensive pus. This variety is generally very stubborn before
yielding to treatment.

Provided the affected parts are not raw, rub well into the skin (twice
daily) for three days a lotion of equal parts of benzine and sweet-oil.
This will destroy the parasites. Then for a week apply daily the
following, rubbing it well into the skin:

    Milk sulphur       ½ oz.
    Antimony           ½  ”
    Whale-oil          ½ pint

Purgative Mixture (Mild) should be given twice a week for at least three
weeks.

A surfeit often shows itself on a dog, which is sometimes called red
mange. This is not due to a parasite, but to overheated blood, resulting
either from improper food, want of exercise, fleas, or inoperative
digestive organs. Treat this affection as prescribed for mange.


PURGATIVE MIXTURE NO. 1 (MILD).

    Syrup buckthorn (pure)       1½ oz.
      ”   white poppies           ½  ”
    Castor-oil                   1   ”

    Dose, 1 tablespoonful every other day for three days for a
    dog of 20 pounds. (The bottle should be _well_ shaken before
    measuring out the medicine.)


PURGATIVE MIXTURE NO. 2 (STRONG).

    Podophyllin                6 grains
    Comp. ext. colocynth      30   ”
    Powd. rhubarb             48   ”
    Ext. henbane              36   ”

    Mix and make into 24 pills. For a puppy (setter six months old)
    a half-pill, assisted with a little broth. Repeat about every
    twelve hours until proper relief is had.


TONIC PILLS NO. 1.

    Quinine            12 grains
    Sulp. of iron      18   ”
    Ext. gentian       24   ”
    Powd. ginger       18   ”

    Make this into 12 pills, giving one night and morning. These
    are particularly good for debility arising from distemper and
    kindred diseases.


TONIC NO. 2.

    Disulphate of quinine      12 grains
    Tinct. gentian              6 drams
    Syrup orange                6   ”
    Diluted sulphuric acid     10 drops

    Mix and give a teaspoonful daily to a pup (setter). Graduate
    dose in proportion to size of dog.


WORMS.

There are three principal worms infesting dogs.

First, the common roundworm, from two to six inches in length, of a
pale pink color, very thin like vermicelli, and greatly resembling the
common earth- or angleworm. This is the worm most common in puppies, and
inhabits the stomach and lower intestines.

Second, the tænia, or tapeworm, made up of white, flat joints (about
half an inch long), often of great length, and also inhabiting the small
intestines. It is about as thick as very coarse thread. Both extremities
of this worm must be removed, else it will grow again.

Third, the pin- or threadworm, inhabiting the lower bowels, about half
an inch in length and of pinkish color. It is apt to cause partial
paralysis in puppies, which disappears after the worms are expelled.

More puppies and grown dogs die each year from worms than from _all
diseases combined_. Their presence is generally manifested by the coat
being dry and staring, dull and devoid of gloss, disturbed sleep very
often resulting in fits, appetite capricious, distention of the stomach,
breath generally offensive, nose hot and dry, loss of flesh, diarrhea
accompanied by mucous discharge, and general irritableness. From an
experience of ten years with Glover’s Vermifuge for _all kinds of worms_,
I have never found anything to equal it, _especially for puppies_,
however delicate. Having made it always a point to give my puppies a
couple of doses of vermifuge at two and six months of age, whether they
show evidences of having worms or not, I have rarely had any further
trouble with these pests.




TECHNICAL TERMS.


[Illustration]

_Apple-head._ A rounded head.

_Blaze._ White mark up the face.

_Brisket._ The part of the body in front of the chest.

_Butterfly-nose._ A spotted nose.

_Button-ear._ An ear whose tip falls over and covers the orifice.

_Cat-foot._ A round, short foot, like a cat’s.

_Cheeky._ When the dog’s cheek-bumps are strongly defined.

_Chops._ The pendulous lip of the bulldog.

_Coat._ The hair.

_Cobby._ Well ribbed up; short and compact body.

_Condition._ That state of body which shows the coat to be in a healthy
state, the bones well covered, the body well rounded, the muscles hard,
and the dog in the best of spirits.

_Cow-hocked._ Hocks which turn in.

_Dew-claws._ The superfluous claws that often appear above the feet on
the inside of the legs.

_Dewlap._ Pendulous skin under the throat.

_Dish-faced._ When the dog’s nose is higher than his muzzle at the stop.

_Dudley Nose._ Flesh-colored.

_Elbow._ The top joint of the front leg.

_Feather._ The hair at the back of the legs and under the tail.

_Flag._ The tail of a setter.

_Flews._ Pendulous lips, as seen in a bloodhound.

_Frill._ A mass of hair on the breast.

_Harefoot._ A long foot, like a hare’s.

_Haw._ The red inside of the eyelid, as shown in bloodhounds, etc.

_Height._ Measurement taken from top of shoulder to the ground.

_Knee._ Joint attaching fore pastern and forearm.

_Leather._ The skin of the ear.

_Occiput._ The projecting bone or bump at the back of the head.

_Overshot._ The upper teeth projecting beyond the under.

_Pastern._ Lowest section of leg, below knee or hock.

_Pig-jaw._ Same as _overshot_.

_Pily._ A term applied to a soft, woolly coat next the skin, out of which
springs a longer coat.

_Prick-ear._ One that stands upright.

_Quality._ Quality is that evidence of breeding which we see in champion
dogs, namely, beauty of outline coupled with a fineness of individual
points that characterizes the dog at once as being well bred. A horse,
for instance, may be very strong and serviceable, yet, being rough and
ungainly, is said to be lacking in quality.

_Rose-ear._ An ear the tip of which turns back and shows the interior of
the organ.

_Smudge Nose._ A nose which is not wholly black, but not spotted, giving
the appearance of some of the black having been rubbed off.

_Stern._ The tail.

_Stifles._ The top joints of the hind legs.

_Stop._ The indentation below the eyes, which is most perceptible in the
bulldog, but noticeable to a less extent in other breeds.

_Trace._ Black line extending from occiput to tail.

_Tulip-ear._ An erect ear.

_Type._ Every breed of dogs is possessed of certain characteristics of
form and feature that stamp it so indelibly that a typical specimen once
being seen it is never forgotten. In the human race, for instance, we say
a man has a face of Malay type, Chinese type, etc. The same applies to a
dog.

_Undershot._ The lower teeth projecting in front of the upper ones.




BREEDERS’ DIRECTORY.


Beagles.

    The Wharton Beagles, East Islip, L. I.
    Debonair Beagle Kennels, Gloversville, N. Y.

Bulldogs.

    C. G. Hopton, Rodney Kennels, Rahway, N. J.
    Tyler Morse, Beaverbrook Kennels, North Danvers, Mass.

Collies (Rough).

    Brandane Kennels (Black & Hunter), Harrisburg, Pa.
    R. G. Steacy, Box 720, Brockville, Ontario.

Great Danes.

    C. H. Mantler, Hudson Kennels, 446 Hudson Boulevard, Jersey City
      Heights, N. J.

Greyhounds.

    Woodhaven Kennels, Woodhaven, L. I.
    H. M. Nelson, 79 Ninth Street, Long Island City, L. I.
    C. M. Higgins, 499 Fourth Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Gordon Setters.

    J. R. Oughton, Dwight, Ill.

Pomeranians.

    Mrs. J. M. Rhodes, Ardmore, Pa.

Poodles (Corded).

    S. C. Hodge, 11 Broadway, New York.

Pugs.

    Rookery Kennels, 613 Mentor Avenue, Painesville, O.

Russian Wolfhounds.

    L. C. Whiton, 114 West Seventy-sixth Street, New York.

St. Bernards (Rough).

    Chalkstone Avenue Kennels, 21 Grosvenor Avenue, Providence, R. I.

Setters (English).

    Belleplain Kennels, Belleplain, N. J.

Spaniels (Cocker).

    Middlesex Kennel, Perth Amboy, N. J.
    Edwin W. Fiske, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

Terriers (Black-and-Tan).

    Scott Bros., New Cumberland, W. Va.

Terriers (Fox, Smooth).

    E. H. Ingroersen, 4144 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, Ill.
    William Le Monnier, 833 Union Street, New Orleans, La.

Terriers (Fox, Wire-haired).

    A. L. Laukota, Thornelo Kennels, Rochelle Park, New Rochelle, N. Y.

Terriers (Irish).

    Irish Terrier Kennels, 352 West Forty-fifth Street, New York.
    Huguenot Kennels, New Rochelle, N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

GLOVER’S

Imperial

DOG REMEDIES.

    Distemper Cure        price per bottle  $1.00
    Mange Cure              ”    ”     ”      .50 cts.
    Vermifuge               ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Tonic                   ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Canker Wash             ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Blood Purifier          ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Cough Mixture           ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Eye Lotion              ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Fit Cure                ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Diarrhœa Cure           ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Liniment                ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Worm Capsules           ”    ”    box     .50  ”
    Digestive Pills         ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Condition Pills         ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Liver Pills             ”    ”     ”      .50  ”
    Kennel and Stable Soap  ”    ”   cake     .25  ”

THESE REMEDIES ARE SOLD BY DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS IN SPORTSMEN’S GOODS.

Book on Dog Diseases and How to Feed

Mailed FREE on application to

H. CLAY GLOVER, VETERINARY SURGEON,

1293 BROADWAY, NEW-YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS

_The following is a list of the MOST DESIRABLE books pertaining to dogs
and their treatment. They will be forwarded to any address on receipt of
the price named._

    American Book of the Dog, Shields                        $3.50
    Bob, The Autobiography of a Fox Terrier                   1.50
    Book of the Dog, Vero Shaw, with portraits                8.00
    Breeders’ Kennel Record and Account Book, large 4to       3.00
    Diseases of the Dog, Dalziel                              8.00
    Dog in Health and Disease, Mills                          2.25
    Dog, The, Dinks, Mayhew and Hutchinson                    3.00
    Dog Training _vs._ Breaking, Hammond                      1.00
    Dogs for Ladies as Companions, Stables                    2.00
    Dogs of Great Britain and America                         2.00
    Dogs, Management of, Mayhew, 16mo                           75
    Dogs, Their Treatment in Disease, “Ashmont”               2.00
    Fetch and Carry, Waters                                   1.00
    Glover’s Album, Treatise on Canine Diseases                 50
    Greyhound, Coursing, Breeding and Training, Dalziel       1.00
    House and Pet Dogs, illustrated                             50
    Kennel Secrets, “Ashmont”                                 3.00
    Modern Dogs, Sporting Division, Lee                       6.00
    Modern Dogs, Non-Sporting Division, Lee                   5.00
    Modern Dogs, Terriers’ Division, Lee                      5.00
    Modern Training, Waters                                   2.00
    My Dog and I, Huntington                                  1.00
    Our Prize Dogs, Mason                                     3.00
    Pocket Kennel Record, full leather                          50
    Practical Kennel Guide, Stables, cloth                    1.50
    Spaniel and its Training, Mercer                          1.00
    Stonehenge on the Dog, with portraits                     2.50
    Training Trick Dogs, illustrated, paper                     25
    Whippet and Race Dog, How to Breed and Race               1.50

_In addition, there will be sent free on application a complete Catalogue
of all books treating upon the following subjects_:

    Adventures (of sportsmen).
    Angling.
    Boating (building canoes, rowboats, etc.).
    Camping (how to build camps, etc.).
    Cats (how to judge, etc.).
    Dogs.
    Ferrets (how to breed, use, etc.).
    Fishing (making flies, rods, etc.).
    Game Laws (all States).
    Games (rules of golf, etc.).
    Guide-books (for hunters and fishermen).
    Guns (how to select, etc.).
    Horses.
    Hunting (large and small game).
    Maps (of lakes and mountains).
    Natural History (birds, butterflies, animals, etc.).
    Shooting (trap, field, etc.).
    Sports (boxing, fencing, etc.).
    Taxidermy (how to stuff game, etc.).
    Trapping (game and birds).
    Yachting (how to build, sail yachts, etc.).
    Yacht Pictures.

                                 Address
                            H. W. HUNTINGTON,
                              NEW YORK CITY.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: WORCESTER COMPOUND CO · WORCESTER · MASS

P·D·Q

TRADE MARK]

Can we add just a word to this valuable book, by saying that the very
latest modern discovery relating to the COMFORT, HEALTH, and good care of
_Dogs_, _Cats_, other animals, _Poultry_ and _Plants_ is the

[Illustration: P. D. Q.]

Powder, which kills _instantly_ all Fleas, Lice, other Vermin, and
their _nits_; _heals sores_; CURES MANGE and slicks up the coat, and
overcomes the “dog odor”; saves all washing with strong carbolic soaps
or other substances which are _Dangerous_ and ruin the hair, and is also
the best _Disinfectant_ to use in Kennels, Stables, Hen-houses, etc.
The _P. D. Q._ is guaranteed _Non-Explosive and not Poisonous_, even if
taken internally by mistake. Has been thoroughly tested and indorsed by
the leading dog breeders and papers of the country, among whom are the
following: H. W. Huntington, N. Y., President of National Greyhound Club
of America; H. W. Lacy, Editor of the _American Stockkeeper_, Boston; J.
F. Johnson, K. E., of the _Turf, Field and Farm_, N. Y.; Jas. L. Little,
Boston, Secretary of N. E. Kennel Club; Al. G. Eberhart, and many others.
The _P. D. Q._ is for sale by nearly all the Dog and Poultry Supply
Stores and Druggists, or can be had from us direct. The retail prices
are 1-pound box, 25 cents; 5-pound bags, $1.00, F. O. B., Worcester. The
express charges average about 1 cent per ounce additional. Liberal terms
to the trade. Write for prices, testimonials, etc.

                         WORCESTER COMPOUND CO.,
                             WORCESTER, MASS.
                              P. O. Box 749.

       *       *       *       *       *

READ RECREATION

[Illustration: (Begin at R and read both ways.)]

IT IS A MONTHLY MAGAZINE DEVOTED TO EVERYTHING THE NAME IMPLIES.

$1.00 A YEAR. 10C. A COPY.

                         G. O. SHIELDS (COQUINA).
                           EDITOR AND MANAGER.
                       19 W. 24TH STREET, NEW YORK.
                         TELEPHONE 1427—18th ST.

RECREATION prints charming stories of the Fields, the Forests, the
Mountains, the Waters.

It prints reminiscences of adventures in many lands.

It tells delightful Camp Fire stories.

It deals with cycling; with natural history; with travel; with yachting,
etc.

[Illustration: IDA SIMMONS.]

It prints short stories, serials, and scientific articles of general
interest.

It gives, each month, one or more full-page pictures of hunting or
fishing scenes, any one of which is worth many times the price of a
year’s subscription. It gives also many smaller views that are beautiful
and instructive.

[Illustration: STRIDEAWAY.]

A bound volume of RECREATION is a rare panorama of the Chase, and of
Out-door Life, in general. No man who loves the rifle, the gun, the rod,
the wheel, the woods, the mountains, the waters, the prairies, should try
to live without RECREATION.

Send 10 cents for a sample copy.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT STUD

First Prize Corded Poodle Dog

BLACK PRINCE

A. K. C. S. B. 39424.

[Illustration]

Mr. Hodge begs to announce that he has recently imported a magnificent
Corded Poodle Bitch, registered in England and America, and descended
from both the world-famous dogs, Champions Lyris and Achilles. He expects
to soon offer the finest bred Corded Poodle puppies in America.

                           Address S. C. HODGE,
                        No. 11 Broadway, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

At Stud.

THE TYPICAL BULL DOG

“Beaver Brook Sultan” (formerly “Rustic Sultan”), winner of sixty first
and special prizes in England, and winner of first prizes at Montreal,
Providence, Mineola and Danbury, 1896.

Fee $30

                                 ADDRESS
                               TYLER MORSE,
                          Beaver Brook Kennels,
                           North Danvers, Mass.

FOR SALE: Dogs and Bitches of Pedigree Stock.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRIANON KENNELS

AT STUD.

THE CELEBRATED

Smooth Fox Terrier “Prisoner,”

winner of numerous first and special prizes in England, Canada, and the
United States. For Catalog, Stud Cards, etc., address

B. S. HORNE, PITTSBURG, PA.

       *       *       *       *       *

RUSSIAN WOLFHOUND

“OPTIMIST”

A typical specimen of his class.

First Prize Winner in six shows in 1896.

For picture see page 42 of this book.

AT STUD—PUPPIES FOR SALE

                              Address Owner,
                            GEORGE M. KEASBEY,
                    26 Stratford Place, Newark, N. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH SETTERS

Gentlemen’s Shooting Dogs a Specialty. Broken, Unbroken Dogs, and
Puppies, also Brood Bitches.

Any one about to purchase a gentleman’s shooting dog is requested to
visit BELLEPLAIN and shoot over these dogs until suited.

KENT RODERIGO at Stud. A. K. C. 42253. Vol. 13.

                           BELLEPLAIN KENNELS,
                            Belleplain, N. J.

Dr. J. T. KENT, Proprietor. JOSEPH MASON, Superintendent.

       *       *       *       *       *

The American Pet Dog Kennel.

IMPORTER AND BREEDER OF

SMALL PET DOGS,

NO. 278 WEST ELEVENTH STREET, NEW-YORK, N. Y.

_The Oldest and Most Successful Breeder and Exhibitor in America._

A Specialty in all kinds of LADIES’ PET DOGS.

KING CHARLES SPANIELS, BLENHEIM SPANIELS, PRINCE CHARLES SPANIELS, RUBY
SPANIELS.

[Illustration: _The Celebrated Champion Romeo_

_Shortest faced King Charles Spaniel living_]

Constantly on hand the largest stock of Japanese Spaniels, YORKSHIRE
TERRIERS, with the longest of coats, from 3 to 6 pounds in weight.
MALTESE TERRIERS, BLACK AND TAN, of the smallest breed. PUGS, MINOTAUR
BRED POMERANIANS, Black, White, Chocolate.

DOGS IN THE STUD.

KING CHARLES SPANIEL.

_CHAMPION ROMEO_ (_9230_), Beat “King of the Charlies,” who was never
before beaten.

_OLD GOLD_ (_27,116_). (The Ruby Spaniel, one of the best dogs in the
Stud.)

[Illustration]

_JAPANESE SPANIEL—MARU._ Beautifully Coated. Weight, five pounds.

YORKSHIRE TERRIERS.

[Illustration: Harboro Swell II.]

_HARBORO SWELL._ Weight, five pounds; twenty-six inches of coat.

_TED._ Weight, five pounds; fifteen inches of coat.

MRS. F. SENN, Prop.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXCELSIOR

Meat Cakes, Fish Cakes, Hound Meal, Bulldog Meal.

Since the Belfast Dog Show in 1891, when I got the first consignment of
your “EXCELSIOR HOUND MEAL,” I have used no other kind; before that time
my dogs were much troubled with a skin disease brought to my Kennels by
a dog from Newcastle-on-Tyne, but in less than three months they were
completely free from the disease, and it has not since returned.

My dogs all like the “MEAL,” and I find that Puppies fed on it thrive
better than on some of the _much puffed_ Puppy Foods.

A careful “chemical analysis,” made before using it exclusively, proved
that the essential and accessory food constituents were present in proper
proportions.

I always recommend it to anyone who consults me on the subject.

                            Very truly yours,

                        _The Irish “Collie King.”_

                           (Signed) ROBERT BARKLIE, F.C.S., M.R.I.A., etc.
                                    _Consulting and Analytical Chemist._

                                   SWISS MOUNTAIN KENNELS, GERMANTOWN, PA.

_Gentlemen_: I have used EXCELSIOR Biscuits now for about five years,
and find them perfectly satisfactory in all respects. The dogs are not
only fond of them, but even when used exclusively have always agreed
splendidly with them, keeping them generally in a good healthy trim.
(Signed)

                                                            Mrs. F. SMYTH.

[Illustration: EXCELSIOR]

                           “REAL ENGLISH” BOARDING KENNELS, CLOSTER, N. J.

I have used EXCELSIOR Dog Cakes for twenty years, and five times that
number of tons of them, but I must say that the Fish Cakes you are now
selling me are the grandest thing for a change of feed that I have ever
used.

                               Yours truly

                                                               (Signed),
                                                               JOHN BRETT.

                                             RODNEY KENNELS, RAHWAY, N. J.

I have used about a ton of your EXCELSIOR BULLDOG MEAL with such
gratifying results that I take pleasure in sending you this testimony.

Its equal cannot be found for giving coat and condition to _all
smooth-coated dogs_. It is a wonderful bone and muscle producer for
puppies, and their diet need never be changed from this meal.

                                                (Signed) CHAS. G. HOPTON,
                                                _Secretary_, Bulldog Club.

                          FRANKLIN HALLET & CO.
                     2 and 4 Stone Street, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Russian Wolfhounds_ AT STUD.

IWAN, By Patrach. Sascza.

PRINCE GALITZIN, A. K. C. S. B., 41,978, By Sorvanets-Raskeda.

[Illustration]

MY DOGS, during 1896, have won first and special prizes at Boston, New
York, Brooklyn, Providence, Danbury, and Mineola.

Grown dogs and puppies for sale.

                              WM. L. ANDRUS,
                             Hudson Terrace,
                              Yonkers, N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

YOU ARE INVITED

To send for a FREE copy of “GAMELAND,” a monthly magazine devoted to
outdoor sports. It has been aptly termed “a monthly echo from the woods,
the waters, the mountains, and the fields.” To the younger generation of
sportsmen, it is both instructive and entertaining; to the veteran, it
serves as a means for passing pleasantly many an idle hour.

Subscription price, $1.00 per year. Three trial numbers, 25 cents.

                GAMELAND PUBLISHING COMPANY, INCORPORATED.
                     63 Rutgers Slip. New York, N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

USED IN THE KENNEL, IT ABSOLUTELY DESTROYS FLEAS, LICE, AND ALL VERMIN,
AND CURES MANGE AND ECZEMA.

ABSOLUTELY PURE. NON-POISONOUS. ANTISEPTIC. SOOTHING.

Glenrose Dog & Stable Soap,

                             MANUFACTURED BY
                              F. W. CHAPMAN,
                         SOAP MAKER AND PERFUMER,
                            ELLSWORTH, MAINE.

Sample cake by mail, 25 cents.

USED IN THE STABLE IT CURES SCRATCHES, CUTS, GALLS, AND WOUNDS. CONTAINS
_NO_ CARBOLIC ACID OR OTHER POISON.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: “SQUANTO”

SQUANTUM KENNELS

ATLANTIC, MASS]

AT STUD.

“SQUANTO,” winner of 1st Prize, Boston; 1st Prize, Mineola.

“HIS NIBS,” winner of 1st Prize, Providence; 1st Prize, B’klyn.

Fee $15.00.

A FEW FIRST-CLASS YOUNGSTERS FOR SALE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELITE KENNELS,

W. J. BURKART, 1301 Broadway, Brooklyn, N. Y.

JAPANESE SPANIELS.

[Illustration]

_AT STUD, JINGO._

FIRST PRIZE WINNER, New York, 1896. Longest Coated Japanese Spaniel in
America; weight 4 pounds. Fee, $25. Superior Dogs and Puppies for sale at
all times.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Beaumaris Kennels.

[Illustration: “LORD YARMOUTH.”]

[Illustration: BOSTON TERRIER “RUTH.”]

[Illustration: “HEATHEN II.” “HEATHEN I.”]

The Beaumaris Kennels,

[Illustration]

Manchester, Mass. Bulkeley Wells, Prop.

Highly Pedigreed Boston Terriers and English Bull Dogs.

Photographs of Puppies and Full Grown Stock for sale sent to any address
on receipt of stamp to cover postage.

_STUD CARDS ON APPLICATION._

Winter Address, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Founded 1814._

DUMINY & CO. CHAMPAGNES.

Ship Only One Quality, but two styles of Dryness.

_EXTRA QUALITY BRUT (a strictly natural wine). 1892._

_EXTRA QUALITY DRY (an extremely dry wine). 1892._

THESE WINES HAVE HELD FOR MANY YEARS THE HIGHEST REPUTATION IN ENGLAND.

    Quarts,  $32.00 per case.
    Pints,    34.00  ”    ”

GREER’S O V H _and Extra Special Liqueur. Scotch Whiskies._

Antediluvian PURE RYE WHISKIES.

Gold Medals and Awards, Paris, 1889; Jamaica, 1891; Chicago, 1893;
Antwerp, 1894; Bordeaux, 1895.

                         JOHN OSBORN’S SONS & CO.
                     Beaver and Broad Sts., New-York.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Celebrated Stud Greyhound

CHAMPION

LORD NEVERSTILL.

A. K. C. 24323.

[Illustration]

WINNING. 1st Prize, Chicago, ’91; Chicago, ’92; Denver, ’92; Brooklyn,
’92; 1st Challenge, Baltimore, ’93; Elmira, ’93; Philadelphia, ’96;
Mineola, ’96; Boston, ’97; and Champion Prize, Boston, ’97; also 15
special prizes.

BREEDING. LORD NEVERSTILL was whelped April 28th, 1889; breeder, H. C.
Lowe of Kansas by his imported Lord Neversettle out of his imported
Partera, and is descended from both Contango and Coomassie.

His brothers and sisters have also made for themselves remarkable names
in the West on account of their running qualities, among which we find
LIBERTY, winner of the National Coursing Derby, 1890. LITTLE CLIMBER,
dividing the Hutchinson Coursing Sweepstakes. PRINCE CHARLEY, winning
the International Stakes, the Columbus Cup, 1893, his sister NANCY being
second, and another sister, PRINCESS MAY, winning the Plate.

“LORD NEVERSTILL won easily in open dogs and is a cracker; he is well
made all over: he has what so few of our greyhounds have—substance and
size—his quarters and back are grand and he should run well and get
runners.”—_Forest and Stream._

                        Address WOODHAVEN KENNELS,
                      Times Building, New York City.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT STUD—FEE, $50.

The English Bloodhound

Simon de Sudbury (39095)

Bears an unbeaten record, and acknowledged by the press to be the best
Bloodhound in the States.

SIMON DE SUDBURY is 1st prize winner at shows held under A. K. C. Rules,
and this offers a grand opportunity for breeders to introduce the best
blood at a reasonable price, and should be taken advantage of by all
who are interested in the improvement of the breed. Special terms to
owners breeding two or more bitches. Mastiffs, St. Bernards, and English
Bloodhounds always on sale. For particulars, apply

                            DR. C. A. LOUGEST,
                           313 COLUMBUS AVENUE,
                              BOSTON, MASS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH MASTIFFS

At Stud—Fee $50.00.

BLACK PRINCE BRAMPTON (35,054). Whelped May, 1894, by Ch. Beaufort’s
Black Prince ex Ch. Brampton Beauty.

At Stud—Fee $25.00.

RAB L. (28,598). Whelped Nov., 1893, by Ch. Beaufort’s Black Prince ex
Winchell’s Bess.

EMPEROR WILLIAM (27,271). A Great Prize Winner.

ST. BERNARDS

At Stud—Fee $25.00. Rough-Coated.

SCOTTISH CHIEF (31,979). Whelped June, 1893, by Scottish Leader (23,958)
ex Jess Bedivere, by Ch. Sir Bedivere. He stands 33½ inches high at
shoulder, has a grand head, perfectly marked, with even white nose band
and blaze, and a dense black shading on face and ears, good neck and
body, with immense bone.

At Stud—Fee $15.00. Smooth-Coated.

NICODE (33,234). Whelped Aug., 1893, by Ch. Altoneer ex Ch. Judith.

Exhibitors should avail themselves of the opportunity to secure puppies
of the above stock, and no better blood is obtainable in Europe or
America. Proof: My winnings at the leading shows 1895, New-York, Boston,
Toronto, Can., Providence, R. I., and Danbury, Conn., were 34 first
prizes, 22 second prizes and 7 third prizes, including special and kennel
prizes at all of the above shows.

For particulars and stud cards apply to

                            DR. C. A. LOUGEST,
                     313 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. T. G. Sherwood has a well-equipped Hospital for the reception of Sick
Dogs,

At 107 W. 37th St., New York.

Telephone, 1363, 38th Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. H. W. Huntington

the author of “My Dog and I,” being in touch with all the prominent
breeders of dogs in the United States, and having officiated as judge at
the

Westminster Kennel Club

Metropolitan Kennel Club

and other dog shows, is prepared to accept commissions for the purchase
of all breeds of dogs. The benefit of his experience of over twenty years
as a successful breeder and exhibitor will be cheerfully given to the
prospective buyer.

                                 Address
                             5 West 39th St.,
                              New York City.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

PEDIGREE.

The above is a miniature of the most artistic pedigree blank ever offered
to a dog-loving public. The original is complete to the fifth generation,
and the whole measures 20 × 21½ inches, being printed on the finest
paper, with the illustrations in toned colors. Properly framed, it is
handsome enough to adorn any wall. Price by mail, $1.00.

                              EDW. KNIERIEM,
              Room No. 7, 112 W. 40th Street, New York City.
